1000.

08/06/19


Maldivian's Majlis's Honorary President, 
Former President of the Maldives and my friend Mohammed Nasheed ji, 
Hon'ble Members of Majlis, Gana,

Excellencies,

Invited guests,

Hello.

I wish all of you and my 130 million Indians all the best. The joy and enthusiasm of the holy festival of Eid-ul-Fitr are still with us. I congratulate all of you and all the people of the Maldives on this occasion.

Mr President,

The Maldives - that is, more than a thousand garlands of islands - not just the Indian Ocean, is an unsurpassed ninja of the whole world. Its immense beauty and natural wealth have been the center of attraction for thousands of years. This country is a unique example of man's unarmed courage in front of the power of nature. The Maldives is witnessing the continuous flow of trade, people and culture. And it is not only the entrance to the capital Malé, the vast blue sea. This key is also a permanent, peaceful and prosperous Indian Ocean region.

Mr President,

Today in Maldives, and in this Majlis, I am very happy to be present among you. The Majlis took unanimous decision to invite me, in his first meeting after becoming the speaker of the honorable Nasheed ji. Your gesture has touched the heart of every Indian. And enhanced their respect and dignity. For this, President, I thank you, and all the respectable members of this dignified house on behalf of you, and thank you very much from all over India.

Mr President,

Today I have come to the Maldives for the second time. And in a way, for the second time, I am witnessing the historic proceedings of the Majlis. Last year I was very happy and proud to join President Salih's post-reception ceremony. That festival of democracy was held in open stadium. Around, thousands of excited people were present. His strength and faith, courage and determination were the basis of that victory. Feeling the energy of the democracy in the Maldives that day I am experiencing a thrill. On that day I saw the dedication of the common citizen towards the democracy in Maldives and, President, Sir, you also love their respect towards politicians like you. And today, in this respectable House, I bow to all the forces of the democracy and join hands.

Mr President,

This house, this Majlis, is not just a building made of brick. This is not just a matter of people. This is the energy of democracy where the country's beats echo in your thoughts and sounds. Here, people's dreams and hopes really change through you.

Here, different ideologies and members of the parties change the collective resolution for the sake of democracy, development and peace in the country. In the same way, just like a few months ago, the people of Maldives united and established a model of democracy in front of the world. Your visit was full of challenges.

But Maldives showed, you showed that victory is ultimately the public. It was not a minor success. Your success is an example and a motivation for the world. And who could have been most proud and happy about this success of the Maldives? The answer is natural. Your closest friend, your closest neighbor and the world's largest democracy - India. Today I want to emphasize that between India and every Indian was with you for the strengthening of democracy in the Maldives and will be together.

Mr President,

India has also recently completed the largest democratic process in human history. For the 130 million Indians, it was not just an election, a festival of democracy i.e. Mega Festival. More than two-thirds, i.e. 60 million voters cast their votes. He gave a huge mandate in favor of development and stability.

Mr President,

My government's premise - 'With everyone, everyone's development and belief of everyone' is also the basis of not only in India but in the world, and especially in our neighborhood, the foreign policy of my government.

'Neighborhood First' is our priority. And in the neighbourhood, the priority of the Maldives is very natural. Therefore, my presence today is not just a coincidence. In December last, President Solih had made India its first destination. And now the Maldivian's friendly invitation brought me the Maldives on my first foreign trip during this tenure. In this visit, I have been honored with the honor of your country for foreigners too. I do not have words to give thanks.

Mr President,

The relations of India and Maldives are also older than history. Since time immemorial, the oceans of the oceans have been feeding the shores of both countries. These waves have been a messenger of friendship among our people. Our civilization and culture are flourishing with the power of these waves. Our relationships have been blessed with the depth and breadth of the ocean. One of the oldest ports in the world, Lothal was in my home state of Gujarat. Along with Lathal, and later cities like Surat, in the later period of two and a half thousand years, the trade relations of the Maldives have been.

Maldivian couples have loved the children of India. Music, musical instrument, rasmo-ritual - all these are a vivid example of shared heritage. Take Divehi language. Week is called Week in India, in Divehi too. See days' names. Sunday is Aadittha (Aditha) in Divehi. It is associated with Aditya i.e., sun. HOMA is Monday, ie Monday, in Divehi. Which resembles soma i.e. the moon.

And the world is called 'Dhunee' in Divehi and 'World' in India. The 'world' is also a famous name in the Maldives. What is the matter of the world, this similarity of language extends beyond 'Paradise' and 'hell' beyond here. For them Divehi has the words 'Suvrooge' and 'hell'. If the list is too long, then the entire dictionary will be created. But in short, at every step it is clear that we are the flowers of the same Gulshan. Therefore, it is very important for us to support the Maldives in the projects like the promotion of the cultural heritage of Maldives, the preservation of manuscripts and the development of the dictionary of the dictionary of Divehi language.

And that is why, today I was very happy to announce India's cooperation in the conservation of Friday Mosque. This historic mosque made of CORAL is no other in the world outside the Maldives. Hundreds of years ago residents of the Maldives composed the unique architecture of the mosque with the help of the sea. It reveals their respect and harmony towards nature.

The subject of regret is that today there are clouds of pollution on the seabed property. In such a situation, not only the conservation history of this unique mosque, but also the message of conservation of our environment to the world.

Mr President,

In support of freedom, democracy, prosperity and peace in the Maldives, India is standing side by side with the Maldives. Whether it happened in 1988, or natural disaster like Tsunami in 2004 or recent water crisis. We are proud that India is with you in every difficult situation every time your every step is standing with you in your every effort. And now, in the favor of development, prosperity and stability in our two countries, huge mandate has opened new pathways for mutual cooperation.

On the last visit to President Solihah, the $ 1.4 billion economy package was agreed upon. There has been encouraging progress in its implementation. The focus of India's cooperation for the development of the Maldives - the socio-economic development of the people of the Maldives. Whether there is water and cleanliness in the islands or the construction of infrastructure. Whether it is health care or education. India's cooperation will be the basis of public welfare, and the needs and priorities of the Maldives.

Our dozens of Social Impact projects and other co-operation programs are touching the lives of the people of the Maldives. And they are complementary to your efforts to improve their lives. India will remain a reliable, strong and leading partner for democracy and prosperity in the Maldives. And our cooperation will strengthen you with all the people's representatives.

Mr President,

Countries are not related to governments only. The contact between people is their life. Therefore, I give special importance to all those measures that encourage people-to-people exchanges. Therefore, I am very happy that we have settled on the ferry service between the two countries today. I am also happy that the Maldivians who come to India for education, health, business, etc. have facilitated with the visa facilitation agreement.

Mr President,

Continuing our mutual cooperation, we have to take care of the deep uncertainties and serious challenges of today's world. The 'disruptions' arising from the huge progress in technology, there are many topics related to changes in economic and strategic axes in the multipolar world, competition and competition, cyber space etc. But I would like to mention the three challenges which are most important to both countries.

Mr President,

Terrorism is a big challenge in our time. This danger is not for a country or region, but for the entire humanity. There is no day when terrorism does not take any innocent life somewhere by showing its horrific form anywhere. Terrorists neither have their banks nor the mint nor the factory of arms. Yet they are never lacking in money and weapons.

Where do they find all this? Who gives them these facilities? State sponsorship of terrorism remains the biggest threat. It is a great misfortune that people are still making a mistake to distinguish good terrorist and bad terrorists. Due to artificial differences, we have lost a lot of time. The water is now rising above the head. All humanitarian forces need to be united to deal well with the challenge of terrorism. Dealing with terrorism and radicalisation is the most accurate test of the leadership of the world.

Just as the world community has actively made world-wide conventions and conferences on the threat of climate change, why can not it be about terrorism?

I would expect from World organizations and all major countries to organize a global conference on terrorism within a time frame. So that the terrorists and their supporters who take advantage of the loopholes can be considered meaningfully on closing them. If we have now more then we will not forgive generations of today and today's generations.

Mr President,

I mentioned the climate change There is no doubt that we are living this truth everyday. Droughts and the uncertainty of the weather are affecting our farmers. The increasing levels of melting icebergs and oceans have become a threat to existence for countries like Maldives. Pollution is wreaking havoc on coral islands and livelihood related to the sea.

Mr. President, you took the world's attention towards these hazards by taking up the world's first cabinet meeting in the depths of the sea. Who can forget him?

The Maldives has made several initiatives for sustainable development. I am glad that the Maldives have joined the International Solar Alliance. This joint initiative of India has provided a practical platform to the countries of the world to conserve the environment. Many results of climate change can be resolved by the powerful alternative of renewable energy.

This honorable house is well known with the hope of achieving 175 GHz of renewable energy by 2022 and the progress made in achieving it. And now with the help of India, the streets of Mali are taking the light of two and a half thousand street lights. And 2 million LED bulbs have come to shine the homes and shops of the Maldives.

Electricity will survive and expenses also. And they will also be environmentally friendly. In relation to the environment, India has a special concern for small islands. We have not only cooperated to resolve their specific problems, but have also raised voice at all the forums in the world. But, there is a need to put together the effort and scale.

But if someone thinks that only technology will solve this problem, then it will not be right. The resistance of climate change is not possible in values, in thinking, in lifestyle and in society without change. In ancient Indian philosophy, it was believed that, "Mother Earth, Friendship Earth:" If we consider the Earth to be our mother, then we will honor and protect her, we must keep in mind that this earth, of the coming generations We are the only trustee, not the owner.

Mr President,

The third subject is the Indo-Pacific region, which is our common area. Here, 50% of the world's population lives. And there is a diversity of religions, cultures, languages, history and political and economic systems. But there are many unanswered questions and unresolved disputes in this area.

The Indo-Pacific area is our lifeline and also the highway to trade. This is the key to our shared future in every sense. Therefore, in June 2018, I spoke to Singapore in Indo-Pacific region with an emphasis on working together to create openness, integration and balance. Doing this will only make the trust between the nations. And the rules and regulations and multilateralism will continue.

Mr President,

Four years ago I had underlined the vision and commitment of SAGAR for the Indian Ocean region. The word SAGAR in Hindi means sea. SAGAR, i.e. Security and Growth for All in the Region, is our blueprint for cooperation in Indo-Pacific. I would like to emphasize on this principle of inclusion today. I also want to say that India will not use its power and capabilities only for its prosperity and security.

Rather, in the development of the capacity of other countries of this region, for their humanitarian assistance in disasters, and for all the security, prosperity and bright future of all countries. Not only in the strong, strong and prosperous India, South Asia and Indo-Pacific, there will be a pillar of peace, development and security around the world.

Mr President,

In order to realize this vision, and to support Blue Economy, India can not get any partner from the Maldives. Because we are a neighborly neighbor. Because we are friends. And there is no small, big, weak and powerful in friends. The foundation of a peaceful and prosperous neighborhood depends on faith, goodwill and cooperation.

And this trust comes from the belief that we take care of each other's concerns and interests. By which both of us are more prosperous, and be more secure. This is possible only when we can strengthen our mutual trust, even in good times and in bad times.

Mr President,

Our philosophy and our policy is: Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. That is, the whole world is a family. Yugpurush Mahatma Gandhi had said: "There is no limit to extending our services to our neighbors." India has always shared its accomplishments with the world, and especially with the neighbors.

Therefore, India's development partnership is to empower people. Not to weaken them. Nor to increase their reliance on us. Or to put an impossible burden of debt on the shoulders of future generations.

Mr President ,

This time is a complex sankranti period filled with challenges. But, challenges also bring opportunities. Today India and Maldives have the opportunity:

o Becoming the ideal of friendly relations between neighbors; 
o To meet the economic, social and political aspirations of our people in mutual cooperation; 
o To work together to establish stability, peace and security in your area; 
o Keeping the world's most important sea lane safe; 
o To defeat terrorism; 
o Keeping away the powers of terrorism and extremism; 
o And bring the necessary changes to a healthy and clean environment and environment.

History, and our citizens, expect us that we will not let these opportunities go, and they will take full advantage of them. To make full cooperation in this endeavor, and to further deepen its precious friendship with the Maldives, India is a strong advocate.

I repeat this sacred resolution between you today. Let me give you a chance to come between you.

Thanks again for this great honor. 
Thanks for your friendship. 
Thanks a lot.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - 
999.

08/06/19


Your Excellency, my friend President Solih, 

Ladies and Gentlemen

I am glad that before my second term, I have had the privilege of visiting your beautiful country Maldives on a foreign tour. 

It is also a matter of great happiness that I have got the opportunity to meet once again like close friend like you. 

For this occasion and for your wonderful guests-on behalf of your team and on your behalf, I thank you and the Maldives government with heartfelt gratitude. 

Our countries have celebrated the festival of Eid just a few days ago with joy and glee. 

I wish that the light of this festival has always been the highlight of the lives of our citizens. 

Excellency,

today honoring me with the highest honor of the Maldives has given you a new glory, not only me but whole India year.

Mark Izzuddin's respect is a matter of joy and pride for me. It is not only mine but respect for friendship and close relations between the two countries. 

I accept it with great humility and gratitude, on behalf of all Indians. 

Our two countries have been bound by the waves of the Indian Ocean for thousands of years in close historical and cultural ties. 

This unwavering friendship has also made us a guide in difficult times. 

In 1988, an external assault or a natural disaster like a tsunami or a recent lack of drinking water. India is always standing with the Maldives and has come forward for help first. 

Friends,

It is clear from the mandate of the parliamentary elections in India and the presidential and Majlis elections in the Maldives that people of our two countries want stability and development. In this way, our responsibility for people-centric and inclusive development and good governance becomes even more important. 

I have had very detailed and useful discussions with President Solihay. We have reviewed our bilateral cooperation in detail with regional and global issues of mutual interest. We have full agreement on the future direction of our partnership. 

President Solih, Since assuming your post, there has been radical change in the speed and direction of bilateral cooperation. Decisions made during your visit to India in December 2018 are being implemented in a concerted and timely manner. 

Friends,

The final financial requirements of the Maldives have been met with a $ 1.4 billion financial package announced during President Salih's visit to India. Along with this many new projects of Social Impact have been started. And new lines of development work are also open under the 800 million dollar line of credit. 

To further strengthen development partnership between India and Maldives, we have focused on projects that benefit the common citizens of Maldives. 

Today our bilateral cooperation is touching every aspect of normal life in Maldives. 

? Water and sanitation arrangements on different islands; 
? Sufficient finance for small and small industries; 
? Development of ports; 
? Construction of conference and community centers; 
? Construction of cricket stadium 
? Emergency medical services;
? Ambulance service; 
? Ensure coastal safety; 
? arrangement of outdoor fitness equipment; 
? Drug detox center; 
? Student ferry; 
? Agriculture and fisheries; 
? Renewable energy and tourism; 

Many such projects of Indian cooperation benefit the people of Maldives directly. 

We have also agreed to assist in the development of infrastructure and conservation of the historic Friday Mosque in the bassoon. 

To increase the connectivity between the citizens of both countries, we have also agreed to start a ferry service between Kuldhfushi and Male in Kochi and Maldives in India. 

With the release of the card in Maldives, the number of Indian tourists will increase. We will take action on this. 

There has also been discussion on strengthening defense cooperation.

Today we jointly inaugurated the composite training center of the Maldives Defense Forces and the radar system of coastal surveillance. This will further enhance the maritime security of the Maldives. 

India values ??its relations with the Maldives. We want a deep and strong partnership with each other. A prosperous, democratic and peaceful Maldives is in the interest of the whole region. 

I want to repeat that India is always committed to every possible help of the Maldives. 

I once again thank the Highness President and the people of Maldives for the warm hospitality. 

Indo-Maldives friendship remains immortal 
Divee Rajje Aiyege Rahmethreikhan Abadah




- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - 
998.

27/05/19


Har-Har Mahadev, the national president of the Bharatiya Janata Party, under whose leadership the crores of Bharatiya Janata Party activists launched this election campaign, the brother Shri Amit Bhai Shah, the popular Chief Yogi ji here, the President of the state Mahendranath Jee and Kashi all the best brotherhood.

As a worker of the Bharatiya Janata Party, I do my best to follow the orders of the party and the workers. A month ago when I was here on 25th day, Kashi had shown a world form with Anan, Ban, Shan, and it was not only affecting Kashi, it was not only affecting Uttar Pradesh, Was influenced. There will not be any corner of India, which was seen in the streets of Kashi, Kashi's mood on Kashi's path, when he was watching the voter in every corner of the country.

Collect the paper which is in the hands of some workers, bring them to me. Are you satisfied? Worker's satisfaction, this is our life spell.

And when on 25th evening and 26 there was an opportunity to talk to workers from the enlightened people here and all of you had ordered me that you can not enter Kashi for a month. Although the country has made me the Prime Minister, I am a worker for you and your order for me is on my eyes. When the campaign expired on 18-19, 19 had to be voted. It was in my mind that there is no work but let's go Kashi. But then I remember, you did not give an entry, so what would happen if I thought it was not Baba or else Baba There is hardly any candidate in the election and in the time of the election results, it is so much as I was. And this was not the reason for this relieved Modi, the cause of relieving was the hard work of all of you, the faith of the Kashiians. Even when the results came, When the result came, he was also restless and therefore, with great joy, he went to Baba's feet in Kedarnath. Kashi is indestructible and which has given me the affection, which has given me power, it is rarely in itself, it is very difficult to get such a fortune. Many of you are, how many programs, I got information about what programs are running. Elections have been made in a variety of ways, even for the country. And in the very whole election campaign, I can say in a very large quantity that the element of yours, I-I was very less, the atmosphere of adoption was more. In this election, the companions of different parties were in the fray, I express my gratitude to those Independents who were in the field in this election. He has also contributed to the campaign of this election suited to Kashi's dignity in his own way; he is also a complimentary officer and therefore I was the other public candidate,

The administration has a lot of difficulties in the elections, it is very hard, the media world around the country came here, then they used to go to the trust of the local media people. In a way, they also wanted to report Kashi and handle the media from across the country, they were doing it themselves, I want to congratulate all the friends of this media world too. In this election when I was meeting with the workers, on that day I had said that maybe there will be a nomination for Narendra Modi, but this election will be contested by Narendra Modi, Narendra Modi will fight every street. And you in one way have your inner strengths, in the same way as Narendra Modi, you have incorporated it within yourself and you have become Narendra Modi and you have run this entire election campaign. Generally when this type of election is done, then what is in the mind now is that the brothers are about to win, But I thank the people associated with Kashi's organization, every small worker of Kashi and every supporter of Kashi for this thing, I do not think this election is weighed down by the scales of Jay and defeat, I think That is a big event of India's democracy. Jai and weighed not in the scales of defeat, he considered the elections to be a festival of public education, to celebrate the folk festival, to celebrate the folk collection, to celebrate the folk dedication, and to remain in no mood, Did not come near, no one had told me. Modi likes us but what is the matter of brother, there is such a big opportunity, you did not even remember me. Every home went to meet every voter, 40-45 degrees went to the temperature and was not hot. Heating the election environment is also a criterion in itself so that the enthusiasm of voters increases. With all these criteria, you have crossed and crossed the distinction mark, so you are eligible for congratulations.

In the country and in the social media, here is the big talk of the girls who took out the scooter and they messaged that our daughters had taken the entire Kashi on their head after sitting on the scooter. Like the program and sometimes we just saw how wow was going on, but was doing public janardan, the public was enthusiastic, there was no reason for this, so today it is like coming to me like the feet of Baba And then you were congratulating Kashi and Uttar Pradesh through all of you. But despite the way people were giving their blessings all over the way, this was a unique experience in themselves and therefore I congratulate you with the heart of all of you. Today I am speaking with good people but overall Uttar Pradesh has many congratulations. Today Uttar Pradesh is giving direction to the country's politics, Today Uttar Pradesh is strengthening the foundations of healthy democracy. Uttar Pradesh gave strength to democracy, demolishing all the walls, telling its loyalty towards democracy, gave the country a direction and strength. But 2014 is 2017, 2019, this hatric is not small. These are not the decisions that have been made so far, the people of the poor family of Uttar Pradesh, who also think about the direction of India's bright future, and also have a direction towards it and motivate the country to walk Does too. These 14, 17 and 19 of Uttar Pradesh, have seen the contribution of these three elections, the politics of India, the socialism of India, how the policies of India's voting are changing, its amazing, vivid form, and three- Even after the three elections, if the eyes of the Political Pandit do not open,The time has expired , they are not for the 20th century, for the 21st century. 50-50 pages of which biodata would be formed, a profile would be formed, so many degrees would be written, so many papers would have been written, what would have happened, but compared to them, a poor man connected to the land, his comprehension power is many times high , There is a very long sight. And we have tried to develop a new system in the politics of the nation by keeping faith and devotion towards him, and by the support of his power, keeping faith in him.

Election results, it is a math, which has got 200 votes and the other gets 201, then the winner is going to be 201 but not 200. Mathematics can be understood on the basis of the result, I have gone into the realm of mathematics and arithmetic for the 20th Century elections ,But whether it is 2014, 17th or 2019, the political analysts of the country have to admit that there is chemistry in front of Earthmate. There is also a chemistry beyond the multiplication. The chemistry of socialism in the country, which is the chemistry of ideals and resolutions, sometimes repeats all the multiplication, all arithmetic, defeats and this time the arithmetic has been defeated by chemistry. In this sense, this election is in itself, the political scholars of the country and the world, some people have a cottage cassettes and they try to make a perception by fitting in the same area. And it is believed that polyatics is about perception, but and we are those people who do not see us as we are, therefore 90 %More than the powers that have been styled in the last 50-60-70 years, they continue to do two things. In any case, do not make the right perception in our respective matter, whatever lies to take advantage of it, and the second, one is such that the paraxation does not come right, the other is, the more misuse of perception, it can be spoiled. Make such a bad perception that people are afraid to stand up, it has lasted for 70 years. These theories of pundits will be that polyetics is about perception, but those pundits will have to think again that there are two things that try the efforts of those who destroy the paraseption, even after defeating the efforts of those who create dirty and bad presents. There is strength to grow and that is, those two things, one is transparency and second is the diligence. Transparency and hard work, people should take their strengths, make perception, He has the courage to defeat him, and India has shown him by accepting him, he has been shown to him. And therefore, we do not have any alternate transparency and diligence for us, because we have to take positiveity between this type of negativity and have to go continuously, because the country is going to move ahead with it and we have done it.  

Friends, we think this is a success. The combination of government and organization, the combination of these two, perfect synergy is a huge force. You must have seen that the BJP has successfully fulfilled this. There are so many governments in the states, there are government in the center, but synergy between the government and the organization. Government makes policies, policy goes on, organization creates strategy. The policy and strategy, its synergy, the government and the organization's work is a reflection of the work and the reflection that we are successful today, the country is getting its benefits. In the same way, we know that the work of the government is to work and therefore the work of the government on one side and when the worker joins it, the car plus worker is such a force that charisma does. This charisma that is visible is also of the work and also the worker with the work, Being one of the two is not to be done in this charisma and hence Work and Worker creates Wonder. And so, the work and the worker, this is the biggest provocative agent of Wonder, the Catalan agent, which we are today. The government did the work, construct the toilets, build houses, transport gas and electricity, but this is the worker who has created the trust that is the beginning. Who has not been found, is going to meet, and whoever gets it is not benefited, his rights have been found. This is a work and workman's synergy, which Wonder makes, we can see in everything today. And, therefore, I think the Bharatiya Janata Party, in a way, has passed through two crises and we have to constantly bear it. As the two powers are the policy and the manner, the two powers are like the policy and the strategy, like the two powers are transparency and diligence, like the two powers are the work and the worker. And they are two crises, take Kerala or take Kashmir, Take Bengal or take Tripura. These things do not appear in the newspapers, they are not seen in the media. Selective sensitivity of some people, selective humanism denies these truths, but hundreds of our workers have bought martyrdom, their murders have taken place. They have been killed due to political ideology. When the elections were going on in Tripura, our workers were hanged on the gallows, the killings of Bengal are still not stopped in Bengal. Our people in Kashmir have put a stake in life, we are killed in Kerala. Perhaps a political party in India has been victimized in such a widespread manner, and the root of what has been made of heresy in its origin is the result of the violence that has been recognized in a way that is a big crisis in front of us. . Secondly there is a crisis in front of us, Baba Saheb Ambedkar, Mahatma Gandhi's great men spent their lives in untouchability in public life, untouchability in society, to eliminate untouchability in the social system, but unfortunately, day by day, political untouchables in our country are increasing day by day. Do not touch untouchability as soon as the Bharatiya Janata Party workers are being constantly wounded, their murders, and on the other hand, the name of the BJP, it is very dangerous. We have come to power for so many years, we are not of divisive humor. Those who make themselves a contractor of unity, only divided Andhra, even today there is no atmosphere of peace, Telangana and Andhra. And we are those people who take the mantra of unity, let us make Uttarakhand out of Uttar Pradesh and do not let the fire fire. We make Jharkhand from Bihar and do not hurt the hearts. Let us make Chhattisgarh from Madhya Pradesh, There are no shortcomings in love because everybody's development-all these mantras are in our rugs, in our consciousness. But in spite of this, such a perception has been made in which we are still untouchables. I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat and for the tourism promotion of Gujarat I sought help from the people of the cinema, they helped. But the whole world broke on them, you and Gujarat, i.e., have gone on to create a perception of such untouchables. It is also a challenge that people of this kind of people in India's democracy are also today, I want to pray today to reconsider Kashi's holy land, a lot has happened. Come on, come friends, start thinking again, the drawbacks will happen in us, but our intentions are good. We are in the hallmark. But in spite of this, such a perception has been made in which we are still untouchables. I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat and for the tourism promotion of Gujarat I sought help from the people of the cinema, they helped. But the whole world broke on them, you and Gujarat, i.e., have gone on to create a perception of such untouchables. It is also a challenge that people of this kind of people in India's democracy are also today, I want to pray today to reconsider Kashi's holy land, a lot has happened. Come on, come friends, start thinking again, the drawbacks will happen in us, but our intentions are good. We are in the hallmark. But in spite of this, such a perception has been made in which we are still untouchables. I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat and for the tourism promotion of Gujarat I sought help from the people of the cinema, they helped. But the whole world broke on them, you and Gujarat, i.e., have gone on to create a perception of such untouchables. It is also a challenge that people of this kind of people in India's democracy are also today, I want to pray today to reconsider Kashi's holy land, a lot has happened. Come on, come friends, start thinking again, the drawbacks will happen in us, but our intentions are good. In the democracy of India, there are people who have this kind of attitude, I want to pray today to reconsider Kashi's sacred earth today, a lot has happened. Come on, come friends, start thinking again, the drawbacks will happen in us, but our intentions are good. In the democracy of India, there are people who have this kind of attitude, I want to pray today to reconsider Kashi's sacred earth today, a lot has happened. Come on, come friends, start thinking again, the drawbacks will happen in us, but our intentions are good.

Friends, Democracy, Anything to Say, Today there is a party living on the political plank of Hindustan, honestly on the political canvas, there is a party to democracy, then Bharatiya Janata Party is there. Even when we come under the rule, we are the people who care about most democracy. Sometimes, when more people come to power, the opposition is not nominated. When we get the power, then the opposition begins to exist because democracy is our spirit. You see Tripura, I would like to say to the country's political scholars and challenge me and say. Someone told me that there was a government of 30 years inside Tripura, whether there was any opposition, was there any voice of opposition, was the opposition ever heard ? Was there ever discussion of the opposition in the media of Delhi ?Had been crushed. Today, we have come to power in Tripura, now it is going to be difficult for two years, today there are wise, glorious opposition and its voice is heard. This democracy is spirit, its voices are given, and for running the country, it is a big thing in itself and responsibility is also done, it is not a favor. I believe what our former president used to say repeatedly Parliament should be used for discussion, you do not have a lot of opposition in the discussion, but when there are no issues for discussion, there are no arguments, fear of exposure, then this simple way of letting the Parliament not be attacked becomes. We are accepting the strength of the Opposition, the people who believe in democracy and where we have the opportunity, the voices of the Opposition, the number is less, the population is reduced due to the distrust of the people. 

Friends, there is one more thing, the democracy of our country has been crushed by votebank politics and therefore whatever decisions are there, there is discussion. If you have to come up with courage and keep your point, then under the pressure of the vote bank politics, nobody in our country can dare to do it. Did poor people of this country have to wait so much for their rights, someone was not ready to listen to them. It was not that the voice was not coming, it was not that people did not express rage. It was not that there were no agitations, everything was there. But if they do this in the influence of Votebank politics then maybe something will be lost .... It was our neutral thinking, the rise of votebank politics and the opportunity for everyone to develop and its cause is that we can make a decision of reservation of 10 percent for the general category. If we went on the politics of votebank, then perhaps we would have lost the same, we would not have fallen, we will do whatever is necessary for the country's bright future. Even today my information remains, the house will be found in the village, start from inside the list from one side, 51 people are giving 25, give the first 25 and then the second budget starts with 26. Who is of the caste, who is of the community, has to take charge from the head, there is nothing to do, he is a citizen of my country, he should meet him. I know those who meet these things never feel like. He only believes that, my name has come in this rule, what did the BJP people do, what Modi did, this can be negativity, there can be a loss,

Friends, we are people who want to move ahead with the glory of India's great heritage, which is time-consuming, we are the people who give up ,But who have come true for centuries, the rishis, the Acharya, the Gods, the laborers, the farmer, the workers, the teacher, the scientist have developed the tradition of the country for thousands of years and let them come to shame, let me It is proud of it. Those who are embarrassed are their problem, we think our great men have given the world a lot and whose heritage is with India. That's why we try to walk with two things, one of these great heritage and the second modern vision. We also have to maintain culture and we also have to address Current Situation. Yoga, Ayurveda, Ramayana circuits, Buddhist circuits, there are great diversities of India. Celebrating Diwali in Ayodhya, who had stopped for so many years, brother? The Kumbh Mela has been used to crush the country's boundaries, for many years, only one type of parasite was created. The fair of Kumbh means, the tribe of Naga sadhus,

On January 26, when there is a parade on Vijay Chowk and Vijay visits the road. For the first time, in the form of Lord Rama seen in Asia, the country has seen progress. But with that we are those people who also make the Atal tinkering lab so that my new generation is the child of the 8th, 10th class, who thinks of the innovation from the Atal Tinkering Lab, thinks on new research, thinks from the scientific point of view and India To take the scientific establishment in the 21st century, we are equally putting the strength to this. Therefore, the importance we give to culture, we are in favor of pursuing the 21st Century Vision evenly progressively. In our country there is the importance of all rupees in worship, but still we are developing the tradition of digitally donating a mobile phone by making Bhim App. It is not necessary that everything can be made new by breaking the old one, But we have taken those things forward. We started with the economy of 11 number of travel, today we reached number 6, in the world. Knocking on the door of the five numbers, working with the intention of reaching 3. Today, my country's youth can emerge as a strength in the beginning of the start-up, with the strength of the startup, the power of the country's youth wants to grow in the direction of amaze the world. That's why we are trying to pursue those things, those who make perceptions have always made it and they will probably have an academic discipline for them, but this kind of thinking causes cracks in the country. They do not even know how their thinking creates a rift in the country. Today there is no area of ??Hindustan where the representatives of the Bharatiya Janata Party do not choose or choose, but our vote count is increasing constantly. Kerala be, Tamil Nadu, Kashmir valley, Today, BJP also selects BJP from Ladakh. Even then these Pandits will sit if the Hindi Heartland party, the largest party in Karnataka, still we have been running the government in Hindi Heartland, Goa, but in the Hindi heartland, throughout North East, it is difficult to understand the Hindi language there. We run the government, the government runs in Assam. We come out of Ladakh by choosing, such an illusion has been created. We are the people of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is a comprehensive, all-natural and universal-generous work. Such an illusion has been created. We are the people of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is a comprehensive, all-natural and universal-generous work. Such an illusion has been created. We are the people of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is a comprehensive, all-natural and universal-generous work.

Brothers and sisters, winning the election is a work and this celebration of democracy has been celebrated with Anan, Bahan, Shan. But now 2022, 75 years of independence, we have done many discussions of rights, we can walk on these five years duty. If a citizen of this country adheres to his duties, nobody's rights will be harmed. This country is mine, today has become a mentality in our country. When the movement of freedom came, we used to die for the country, but after independence, there is a school, so we are comfortable saying that this is a government school. Hospital, brother, this is a government hospital, he is not a government, he is yours, you are his master. We have to create this feeling, whatever government is, it belongs to every citizen of India. And to increase it, to give strength to it, to protect it is our duty as a citizen. This is the government school, brother, who will go there, who is the government hospital, who will be there? No, We are the government together, it is ours, how we can strengthen it. We clean our scooter four times a day, 20 years old, the color is broken, but still clean four times. But sit in the government bus and seat next to the seat, if you do not sleep, do not sleep, do you put a finger in the seat, everything will be done here and do not fall until two to three inches We are not happy. Speak Bharat Mata's Jai and after eating Banarasi paan, this is what Bharat Mata's Jai Bhai is. Make the same mummy dirty, we face trouble for the mother crying, to say that the country is mine, these people are my people. The spirits which started the movement of independence, we started moving forward to take 75 years of independence from the same spirit to new heights and show them Kashi. Even though the color has broken up, but still clean four times. But sit in the government bus and seat next to the seat, if you do not sleep, do not sleep, do you put a finger in the seat, everything will be done here and do not fall until two to three inches We are not happy. Speak Bharat Mata's Jai and after eating Banarasi paan, this is what Bharat Mata's Jai Bhai is. Make the same mummy dirty, we face trouble for the mother crying, to say that the country is mine, these people are my people. The spirits which started the movement of independence, we started moving forward to take 75 years of independence from the same spirit to new heights and show them Kashi. Even though the color has broken up, but still clean four times. But sit in the government bus and seat next to the seat, if you do not sleep, do not sleep, do you put a finger in the seat, everything will be done here and do not fall until two to three inches We are not happy. Speak Bharat Mata's Jai and after eating Banarasi paan, this is what Bharat Mata's Jai Bhai is. Make the same mummy dirty, we face trouble for the mother crying, to say that the country is mine, these people are my people. The spirits which started the movement of independence, we started moving forward to take 75 years of independence from the same spirit to new heights and show them Kashi. All of us have done here and we do not get tired till two to three inches from inside. We are not happy. Speak Bharat Mata's Jai and after eating Banarasi paan, this is what Bharat Mata's Jai Bhai is. Make the same mummy dirty, we face trouble for the mother crying, to say that the country is mine, these people are my people. The spirits which started the movement of independence, we started moving forward to take 75 years of independence from the same spirit to new heights and show them Kashi. All of us have done here and we do not get tired till two to three inches from inside. We are not happy. Speak Bharat Mata's Jai and after eating Banarasi paan, this is what Bharat Mata's Jai Bhai is. Make the same mummy dirty, we face trouble for the mother crying, to say that the country is mine, these people are my people. The spirits which started the movement of independence, we started moving forward to take 75 years of independence from the same spirit to new heights and show them Kashi.

Friends, after the election campaign today, the atmosphere of victory celebration is gradually cooling down, I have come among the people, I have come to the knowledge city, I have come to the earth of great heritage and from that, I have revealed to you. When the election was going on, at the same time this year, whom we had given Padma Shri, the revered Hiralal ji was not among us, who made a huge contribution to music meditation. When I came here for the first time since his death, I respectfully pay tribute to him. I talked to her family members, but she kept the pride of all of us for her legacy. I thank you heartily, once again for your happiness, for your hard work and for your dedication, whatever hard work you have done for your dedication. Thank you all so very much. Thanks to all the Kashi voters, Thanks to the whole of Uttar Pradesh. Thanks a lot.



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - 
997.

23/05/19



The successful, hard working president of Bharatiya Janata Party, Bhai Amit Shah ji, all the senior members of the Bharatiya Janata Party and dear brothers and sisters, today Meghraj himself is also among us to be part of this Vijayantasav.

The mandate of the Lok Sabha of 2019, we went to all the citizens to take a mandate for the new India. Today we are seeing, the citizens of the country fill the fame of this fakir. I bow to bowing down the heads of 130 million citizens of India. This is the only figure of the voting of the 2019 democratic world, this is the biggest event in the history of the democratic world in itself; this is the biggest event of the whole world. The country was free, how many Lok Sabha elections were held, but after Independence, after the elections, the highest voting was held in this election. And that too between 40-42 degrees in summer, it is in itself an awareness of India's voters, India's commitment to democracy, the whole world has to register this thing, the whole world must recognize the democratic power of India.

On this occasion, I express my condolences to the family of those people who have sacrificed their lives for the sake of democracy, in the celebration of this democracy. And for the sake of democracy in the history of democracy, these examples will continue to inspire generations to come. I heartily congratulate the Election Commission, to give security forces the best way to give confidence to everyone in handling the system of this democracy, in order to give a better sense of confidence in democracy. 

Friends, when the war of Mahabharata was over, Shri Krishna was asked about whom you were in favor. I understand that in the time of Mahabharata, Lord Sri Krishna gave the answer that today in the 21st century, in the elections of 2019, 130 crore citizens of Hindustan, Janata Janardan has responded in the form of Shri Krishna. And Shri Krishna had replied that I was not in favor of anyone, I was just in favor of Hastinapur for Hastinapur. Today 130 million citizens are standing for India in the form of Shri Krishna, have voted for India and hence this sense of common citizenship of the country is a guarantee of India's bright future. In this election I was telling from the first day that no party is fighting the elections, no candidate is fighting, no leader is fighting, the people of this country are fighting. For those whose eyes and ears were closed, it was difficult for me to understand, But my sense of publicity has been revealed by Janardhana and so if someone is victorious, then Hindustan has won, if a person has won then democracy has won, if a person is victorious then the Janata Janadan has won. And so we all the Bhartiya Janta Party activists, we all humblely donate the NDA devotees to this victory at the feet of public Janardhan.

I congratulate all the winners who have won in this Lok Sabha election and have won all the victorious, any party, come from any background, but the commitment of the country's bright future Together with shoulders, all the victorious people of India will serve the country in the coming days, with the belief that I congratulate them all for the bright future of India. Not. 

There were also elections in four states, Odisha, Andhra, Sikkim, Arunachal. I congratulate those governments which have been elected by those people who have been elected in those assemblies. And I assure those governments that the Bharatiya Janata Party is dedicated to the constitution of India, is dedicated to Federalism and therefore I want to convince those who win these things to victory that the Central Government will fulfill the development journey of those states Like the shoulder side, he will walk with them. As our President said that hundreds of crores of workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party, their hard work, their happiness, are so proud that in such a party we are such kind people. Over-the-line workers are the only one, the mother of Bharat Mata and nothing, the workers, He is the president of every Bharat Bhartiya Janta Parivar (BJP) family. Who, with selflessness, kept the flag of democracy alive and fulfilled the hopes and aspirations of the common man of the country, in a democratically organized role of this whole democracy, his role in enhancing his, Have played. 

The Bharatiya Janata Party is characteristic and the attribute is that we have never been two, but we have never distracted from our path, did not let the ideals disappear, did not stop, neither weary nor inclined, sometimes we became two Even then and it has come again today. There have been many ups and downs in this journey until the two come again. Two were still not disappointed, even after coming again neither will leave our humility, nor will we leave our conscience, nor will we leave our ideals, nor will we leave our rites.

Friends, our President was telling some highlights of the results. I was very busy myself today due to which I did not care about the election results and therefore I do not have complete information about where, what happened, but as explained by the Speaker, I will take time out after tonight. What has happened all day today But whatever President Zee said, in itself, the Hindutva's Political Pundits will have to abandon all their 20th century thinking. This is the 21st century, it is a new India, the victory of this election, someone says Modi-Modi, this is not the victory of Modi. This is the victory of the hopes and aspirations of the citizen, for the sake of honesty in the country, this is the victory of the young man who started the dream of the 21st Century. This victory was intensified for a toilet with self-esteem, self-esteem, that is the victory of that mother. This victory belongs to a sick person who is four, four, For five to five years due to the absence of money, he was not able to get treatment, whose treatment of today is the victory of blessing today. This victory belongs to the farmers of the country, who also harasses their stomach to fill the nation with the sweat and keeps raising bothers themselves, this is their victory. This is the victory of 40 million unorganized laborers, for the first time, the people of the left will have kept a lot of ideas, but in this country there is no government labeled, but for 40 million people, pension for unorganized workers By implementing the scheme, he has worked to give a respected life, this is his victory. Those who have been living in homeless life, living in a permanent home today, this is their victory and those who are determined to become a permanent house by 2022 are victorious. Today, the treatment of today's treatment is the victory of blessing. This victory belongs to the farmers of the country, who also harasses their stomach to fill the nation with the sweat and keeps raising bothers themselves, this is their victory. This is the victory of 40 million unorganized laborers, for the first time, the people of the left will have kept a lot of ideas, but in this country there is no government labeled, but for 40 million people, pension for unorganized workers By implementing the scheme, he has worked to give a respected life, this is his victory. Those who have been living in homeless life, living in a permanent home today, this is their victory and those who are determined to become a permanent house by 2022 are victorious. Today, the treatment of today's treatment is the victory of blessing. This victory belongs to the farmers of the country, who also harasses their stomach to fill the nation with the sweat and keeps raising bothers themselves, this is their victory. This is the victory of 40 million unorganized laborers, for the first time, the people of the left will have kept a lot of ideas, but in this country there is no government labeled, but for 40 million people, pension for unorganized workers By implementing the scheme, he has worked to give a respected life, this is his victory. Those who have been living in homeless life, living in a permanent home today, this is their victory and those who are determined to become a permanent house by 2022 are victorious. The unorganized workers have done the job of giving them a respected life by applying a pension plan, this is their victory. Those who have been living in homeless life, living in a permanent home today, this is their victory and those who are determined to become a permanent house by 2022 are victorious. The unorganized workers have done the job of giving them a respected life by applying a pension plan, this is their victory. Those who have been living in homeless life, living in a permanent home today, this is their victory and those who are determined to become a permanent house by 2022 are victorious.

Brothers and sisters, these victories belong to those middle class families, who followed the rule of law, who kept paying tax for the betterment of the country, but never got respect, nor did he ever believe that he Does he pay taxes, comes the work of the country? Experienced in five years, what he is giving is going to the right place, the right thing is coming. The satisfaction that the middle class has got is that Santosh is seen in these election results. This election has given a new acceptance to the strength that the honesty has received. And the change that has changed in this way has brought about this change.

Brothers and sisters, this election happened in our country, otherwise you should have seen that for 30 years, especially in the country, these dramatics have been running for a long time. One such printout, one such tag was fashioned, do anything, it would have been as good as bathing the Ganga and it was completely fake, that tag was called secularism and slogans seemed to be secular one- get secular one . You must have seen that the whole Jamaat stopped talking till the 19th of 2014. In this election, one political party has not dared to mislead the country by wearing a mask of secularism. Secondly, no election in India has not been reached, whose center point has not been expensive, this election is such that even one opposition party did not accuse inflation. This election is such that in the last elections of Hindustan elections, all the elections were dyed with the issue of corruption. Elections were fought on issues of corruption, Had to answer the issues of corruption. This was the first election in which no political party of the country could make a charge of corruption on a five-year rule. These three things have been Constantent in India's democracy, there were mishaps in this election. Therefore, the political scholars did not understand what the scales should be weighed in things.

Brothers and sisters, this election has created a strong 21st century foundation for our social, public, political life and I would like those who want a bright future for the country. The people who became the people, who made them-who will come, the people will continue to decide, but for India's bright future, for the unity and integrity of the country, the people of India now have a new narrative country Has placed in front of The poor people of the country have forced all sociologists to reconsider their old thinking, and what is that? Now only two castes will survive in this country, two castes are going to remain and the country is going to focus on these two castes. In the name of this caste people have played a huge blow in the elections. And there are two castes, Which? Now in the 21st century, there is one caste of India, the poor and the second caste, to give some contribution to poverty free from the country, some give some contribution to their contribution. There are those who want to come out of poverty, others are those who want to liberate the country from poverty. They are two castes and therefore we have to empower them both in the 21st century. To strengthen the person who is to bring out of poverty, and to increase the poverty of helping out of poverty, also to make it stronger, these two powers can eradicate the stigma of poverty from this country, this dream We have to walk by taking it.
Friends, this election is so important that in this period, this is a five-year term from 2019 to 2024, and such a huge public opinion is a big event, which is a surprise event to the world. Remember the moment, this is the time when the 150th anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi will celebrate the country. This is the time when India will celebrate 75 years of independence in 2022, Gandhi-150 and India-75 In these five years, from 1942 to 1947, we see the addition of reward. From 1942 to 1947, every person in the country used to do for freedom. He used to leave school for freedom, he used to wear khadi for freedom, he used to broom for freedom, for freedom, he taught children to freedom, he used to follow Swadeshi for independence. A mass movement from 1942 to 47 made great contribution in the freedom of independence of the country.

This is from 2019 to 2024, this period is to remind the freedom fighters of the country and the countrymen also decide that in these five years we have 130 crore people, at that time the population was not so much and had ended the great sultanate. . Today, we are 130 crore people, if we make a resolve that the country is to be free from all troubles, the country has to move towards a prosperous nation, making a developed India is to breathe. We have to fulfill the needs of poor and poor, if from 2019 to 2024 the spirit of independence is to become a spirit of prosperous India, that independent India will become a transcendent prosperous India, before 2024 we will be on the new heights. We can take it. And so friends, we have to accept this election politely. The government is made up of the majority and the people have made it, but the rites of democracy, Spirit of Democracy Spirit of the Constitution of India gives us responsibility for the fact that the government is made up of good majority, but the country is made up of the public. And so I tell in public today what happened in the election, how happened, who said, that thing has passed for me. We have to look forward, we all have to walk together, we will be very fiercely. They also have to walk with them, walk for our country and after all this huge huge majority, we have to walk with complete humility, between democracy. Have to walk In the shadow of the Constitution itself, in the shadows of the same, we have to walk by catching the expressions of every word and any worker from Bharatiya Janata Party in that work, every citizen of India will also join us with the same excitement and enthusiasm, This is my faith. That thing has passed for me. We have to look forward, we all have to walk together, we will be very fiercely. They also have to walk with them, walk for our country and after all this huge huge majority, we have to walk with complete humility, between democracy. Have to walk In the shadow of the Constitution itself, in the shadows of the same, we have to walk by catching the expressions of every word and any worker from Bharatiya Janata Party in that work, every citizen of India will also join us with the same excitement and enthusiasm, This is my faith. That thing has passed for me. We have to look forward, we all have to walk together, we will be very fiercely. They also have to walk with them, walk for our country and after all this huge huge majority, we have to walk with complete humility, between democracy. Have to walk In the shadow of the Constitution itself, in the shadows of the same, we have to walk by catching the expressions of every word and any worker from Bharatiya Janata Party in that work, every citizen of India will also join us with the same excitement and enthusiasm, This is my faith.

Brothers and sisters, the country has given us a lot, I want to say something in front of the countrymen this moment today. I want to convince the people that you have filled this parable of fakir. My dear countrymen have filled you with this fakir, I am full of hope and hope. Your aspiration, your dreams-your resolve is very much associated with it, I well understand the seriousness of this matter, but I would say this country that in 2014, I did not know much but you believed. In 2019, after knowing more about you, putting more strength in it, I understand the feeling behind it very well. Like Amit Bhai was saying, after a number of years, an elected government came for the second time with a full majority and with more power than before, This means the confidence of the people of the country and the increase of trust increases and the more the responsibility increases. That is why I would like to tell the countrymen that you have given me the responsibility, all the supporters of our NDA who supported us. NDA colleagues have worked hard together and then I would definitely like to say to the countrymen today and consider this to be my promise, accept my dedication, accept my dedication, accept my commitment, but I would definitely say that whatever you Has worked again. In the coming days, I will not do anything wrong with bad character. While working, there may be a mistake, but with bad faith, I will not do any work from bad faith. The other countrymen have given me such a great responsibility, such a big responsibility, then I will tell the countrymen again that I will not do anything for me. And the third thing I would like to say publicly, the moment of my time, The particles of my body are only for the countrymen. My countrymen, whenever you evaluate me, on these three scales, I have to keep tightening, if there is any shortage, keep abusing me, but I assure the nationmen that I try hard to live what I say in public. I am

Today, I continue to make fun of the people of our national president, their entire team heads of states, the team of states, the people of the party, the people of the party, but the power of that emerald chief is known in this election. . Thank you very much, from my grandfather chief to national chief, these millions of activists, their hard work, their commitment to the heart once a lot, very much, thank you.

Speak with me, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Vande Mataram, Vande Mataram, Vande Matram, Vande Matram, Vande Matram.




- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - -
996.

17/05/19



Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata

It is my good fortune that in the last meeting for the 2019 mandate, I came in the lap of the mother Ahilyabai and mother Narmada. Friends, my election campaign started from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. And today the last meeting of this election campaign is being held in Khargone, Madhya Pradesh. From a historical perspective, there is also a door between me and Khargone, which often lacks attention. Perhaps for many of you, this new excitement will give me new inspiration. Companions, Meerut Ho or Khargone are both associated with the inspiration of nationalism. 1857 is associated with the freedom struggle. In Meerut, where soldiers against the Agarajas played the bugle of the freedom movement. At the same time Khargone's great warrior and freedom fighter Bhima Nayak led the tribal movement and sacrificed his life to protect Mother Bharati. I pay my tribute to all warriors of that Revolution of 1857, and especially Bhima Nayak, once again. I bow to these great souls.

The BJP government has also constructed a memorial in memory of Shaheed Bhima Nayak ji. And so I congratulate Mr. Shivraj and all his team. When I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh where there is boundaries, there is a place to be excused. And we all know that Govind Guru had forced the British to chew iron grams by awakening patriotism in tribal society. In memory of such a great Govind Guru, a magnificent monument has been built in Managad. And when I was in Gujarat, I used to go to pay homage to Govind Guru often once a year. And the great tributes to the tribals of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat are still in Managad today. And so it is my good fortune that in the last assembly of this election campaign, I have had the opportunity to visit the tribes, tribal brothers and sisters and receive their blessings. Companions, When you arrive at the polling station on this Sunday, history is about to be created. You are about to form a government of full majority for a second consecutive decades after decades. This time you are not only going to vote but also to strengthen the foundation of a developed and prosperous new India.

In the democracy, the election is for the formation of the government. Political parties and public representatives ask you to vote according to your own policy and policy. But this election in 2019 is different from the previous elections. It is unprecedented, this election is led by the people of the country. You guys are Voting is not for any party but the whole country, every voter in the country is voting this time for the country. The Janata Janardhan is itself in the field to make the 21st century a new India to make the people not only to form the government but to make the country a nation to form a nation. Brothers and sisters, I've been working party for years. I have always been in charge of Madhya Pradesh, every district has been scattered here. When elections were held in Gujarat, then I would like Dhar, Khargone, Jhabua used to help all the people. When there was an election, I too came for help. My introduction is very old to you people. My language and your language also are the same. We are such a big party, a party made by austerity of great men like Kushabhau Thakre. But I tell? Do not mind any brother, do not feel bad on election day.

Even when I was the organization minister, I used to work for the organization of the party even then. Even if we made the party so big Seven phases are run after the election periods, on the last day, the last gathering is not the strength of any organization, such a big gathering. Impossible, I bow down and say. If I do the work of negotiation then I can not. This is not the power of the party. This is the voice of your hearts, brothers and sisters. People in Delhi are discussing, elections have become hot, tired, they have grown tall. These are those who are tired, they will sit among my adivasis and get new energy. What is the polity of this country? Amazing, 100-100 hats, you filled a new color in the election of 2019 brothers, and filled my tribals. The less I thank you is less. Brothers and sisters, the result of the enthusiasm of the makers of 21st century India's new India is that today the country is from Kanyakumari to Kanyakumari, Kamrup from Kutch The whole country is saying that the Modi government is going to be there. this time Modi's government. And from three to four days I am hearing that now 300 times, now 300 times, now 300 times crossing. Once again the Modi government. Once again the Modi government.

Brothers and sisters, I am happy that the nation is expressing its faith in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the courage and enthusiasm of the Bharat Janta Party, inspired by the philosophy and good governance of Antyodaya. I am satisfied that in the honor of our sutras, the whole country is standing in honor of bravery. Our commitment to ending brother-in-law, terrorism and Naxalism has received a lot of public dedication to the public. This is the spirit of the country that terrorists can be killed in the house and killed. My tribal brothers, tell me, the way to kill this house is right or wrong. You are happy that Modi kills in the house and then your seina is wide, your head is high. Every Hindustani is proud of it. Brothers, this is the answer to your heart. Our heroic sons Let's lower the glory of heroic sutts than we do. This should be the policy of the new India. Brothers and sisters, The Congress went among the public about topics such as snatching privilege from soldiers and abolishing the law of sedition. Which the country has turned down The country is unanimous that people who are lobbying for separate Prime Minister for Jammu and Kashmir. They should be given the biggest punishment in this election. Should not give or give?

Brothers and sisters, giving full India and you are also giving me I have full faith. The country wants to punish those people too. Those who think that you will be shocked to hear in the army. In Karnataka, the chief minister is the one whom the Congress has appointed as Chief Minister, and my tribal brothers do such a huge service to the country of Uniform in these security forces. We can never forget their favors. So do the work. I know all. But in Karnataka the Congress made the chief minister. They have given a bion, after hearing this statement, no person from this country will ever vote for Congress for the next 100 years. Have given such a dirty statement. And so far the Congress has not even dared to speak that they have nothing to do with this statement. The power of power in the power of the Congress is so dominant on the Congress that it is such a big crime, yet the voice of the Congress is not getting out of the mouth. Brothers and sisters, What have they said that these Congressmen have made the Chief Minister, I tell you? Tell me After that, do not vote for the Congress at all times in the entire India and in Madhya Pradesh. What do they tell me? They said that the boys in the army go to those who do not have bread to eat. They die starving, so they go to the army.

Brothers and sisters, is it an insult to our offspring, is it not that the tribals are insulted or not? Is not there an insult to the mother-mothers? Is this an insult to the army of the country? Hey Chen's Chapatow and his friends, what language are you speaking? Oh my tribal child, when he goes to the border, he is ready to eat the bread, not to eat the bread. For his dream, he gives life for the dreams of my country. Is this insult of these heroes, insult of my tribal brothers and sisters, insult of my brave mothers, will this country tolerate? What should you do? Should they be punished or not? Brothers and sisters, I am grateful to our tribal society, tribal society that they have fully recognized the truth of Congress, and always have always denied Congress's lies, their roles, And now the tribal society has begun to ask the Congress to the falsehood of Congress. I have come to you because I am from Gujarat and there is a very big tribal society, living in between them. I am a person who knows their problems. Not only that, one of my books is the path to tribal welfare. A book written many years ago. What is my commitment then I was not even the Prime Minister. The way I work, I have spent some years of Jawani as a volunteer in the Janseva in the tribal area only. So I know the happiness and misery of the tribal society. I also assure you that till the time Modi is the BJP, the rights of the people living in the forest can not take their land to any extent till then. Give punishment to those who spread lies. Answer the participants of the game to split inside you. This drama of dilemma was also done at the time of Atal Ji's government. This is his game. They do not have to welfare tribals. I have a book, you have read, you must be interregistered in the academy. What is our feeling?

Friends, your servants are working wholeheartedly for the education of the tribal society, earning, medicine, irrigation and masses. A comprehensive network of Eklavya schools is being created across the country to study. We have launched a campaign to create world class players in tribal areas. We are continuously working to increase value in forest produce through forest wealth centers. Thereby, it is decided to get more cost of forest produce. Not only this, we have fully employed the government to bring tribal artifacts online in the market worldwide. Tribal culture and tradition is being preserved through technology. Apart from this, for the tribal heroes who are martyred for independence, less is going on in monuments across the country. As I told the story of Bhima Nayak, as I told the story of Govind Guru, as we are doing for Birsa Munda in Jharkhand. All over the country, Brothers and sisters, today I express my gratitude to the farmer. Who has continued to trust his servant.

In the past five years, we are going to give more speed to the steps we have taken to make a strong system from seed to market. To double the income of farmers till 2022, we are fully committed to double. It is our constant effort to reduce costs, get value right. We have stepped up to make Anandaras become energetic too. Brothers and sisters, farmers in our country are small land, big land. Where there is irrigation, river water, pond. There are two or three crops in it. But most farmers can barely afford one crop. Let us now put solar panel in that land, generate electricity and the state government purchases power so that our farmers earn 12 months, working earnively with the power of the sun, are working in this direction. Farmers do not need electricity, no cost for solar pumps, pumps run out of the sun power. Not to wake up at night, to pump in the day, Our government is working very fast on the water in the field. Through solar energy, irrigation can also be free by solar power and electricity is also sufficient. And earn extra electricity. We are doing this work. Friends, we are engaged in empowering the farmers. Under this thought, money is being deposited directly into the farmers' account. Now we have also decided that this help will be sent directly to every farmer's family account in the country. The people who lie in these jihadis do not have the courage to give account of their rule. There is no dare to tell about the things you have done. So lie, I have been told that a lie is happening that this Modi who deposits money in the farmers' account will be withdrawn after the election. What are these lies brother My brothers and sisters, the money which the Indian government is collecting in the farmers' accounts, your money is yours. You are his master, No power in the world can take you back from that money. And this money is not for once, they will meet three times a year. And will meet every year. No one will be able to stop it, I will write it to you. Also, this huge task will be done by small farmers, farm laborers and small shopkeepers on the 23rd of the election. Once again the Modi government. Once again the Modi government. The results will come on 23rd. Then once the Modi Government will be formed then we have come to power after independence, we are going to do a great job for the first time. Be our farmer, our laborer, our farm laborer. Our auto rickshaw driver We are our small shopkeepers. A small shopkeeper who sells your merchandise is a shopkeeper. There is a clown hanger, a warehouse reporter, a newspaper seller, a seller of milk. There are as many small people as this, there are 40 million people in this country, brothers and sisters, We have decided that after the age of 60, we have come up with plans for how to get pension for such people every month. In old age, there was no need to remain attached to old age, he could live with respect, and therefore after 60 years, for the farm laborer, for the farm laborer, the pension is available every month for 60 years. I have spoken in the government to make a great plan for this. And once again Modi government will come and I will come here. Not only this, a reward system is being empowered in the whole country to give the farmers a fair price for freeing the middlemen. Brothers and sisters, the country's farmer is having faith in our point of view today just because he believes that only honestly and only the Bharatiya Janata Party can do the job. Whilst the Congress and its maternal colleagues have an unbelief because they know only cheating. If the country's farmer is believing on our point of view today only because he believes that only honestly and only the Bharatiya Janata Party can do the work. Whilst the Congress and its maternal colleagues have an unbelief because they know only cheating.

The assembly election here has happened just 150 days ago. In the election, these Congressmen roamed around, hugged you and taught you the counting. Did not you have count? One, two, three, did not say that? Within one to ten and within just ten days, the farmer will forgive the debt. Was not it said that? Did you hear? Do not tell with full force like this? Did you hear? Was not their promise that? Ten days have passed or not? 30 days have passed or have not gone? Has it been 50 days or not? 100 days have passed or have not happened? 150 days are going to happen or not? Tell me what debt is forgiven? Is the loan forgiven? They lie, do not speak? Do they cheat or not? The farmer here is upset because the bank is not offering new loans and sending the police to the house. Now the MP farmer is asking what happened to our debt waiver? Say no to those who do not apologize, forgive them, now it is not your work, Shove them With the promise of electricity, they played such a game that they would get a good chance. Their brain is very big. Big brains are evil. They had promised that the electricity bill would be half. Was not that said? But see these evil brains, how the demonic brains perform satanic work, what they did, did not do the bill halfway, the electricity was reduced. The promise was made to change the Chief Minister if the debt was not lost, but the Chief Minister in the MP did not change; And so the officers also have fun, he goes to ask him, he goes to ask him. He sends it to the first one. Everybody is cutting down, no work is happening. Two-and-a half cm sitting are brothers, one and a half times, so many problems are there, what happens if they are half-dead? You are seeing the exploitation of the government of the two and a half cm. The industry transfer industry is a new game of grouse. The equal fruit is blooming. Criminals and robbery are raising the head. Dalit and tribal students are longing for housing allowance. Your servant from Delhi also sent money to the tribal children, the saving sisters, from the malnutrition to save them from hunger, they also put them in the election campaign.

Sathiyo, Tuglak road election scam has seen the whole country. Crores of rupees from the Congress leaders' house were found in the sack. Did not you see that on TV? The government had not yet been 60 days and started the game. Bring 15 years old too, will you survive? Will some survive? Will this Madhya Pradesh survive? Brothers and sisters, the mistake of pressing a finger has ruined the whole of Madhya Pradesh. How can a good believer have such a right over those people? This is the reason why the country is being rejected at all levels by the Congress and its allies. Friends, I am very grateful to the daughters, sisters and mothers who have come forward and blessed this servant to the BJP. I assure every sister daughter that in the last five years the nation has started the journey of empowerment of women. He will be further strengthened in the next five years. Brothers and sisters, In the past five years, we made the toilets for sister daughters in the house-to-school school. We have taken the initiative of doing this to the village village poor house, electricity to the house. Giving the connection of free gas to the poor from the poor house. Now in the coming five years, we are going to work with full dedication on water problem. Brothers and sisters, our country has become a very big thinker politician, Ram Manohar Lohia ji Today, in the name of socialism, the leaders who are sitting on the wealth of wealth, they wear out wearing red caps. Give slogans of socialism, Ram Manohar Lohia ji said 50 years ago that two problems of women of our country are main. One of the water and the second panache. First of all remove the two troubles of the women of our country. 50 years ago socialist doctor Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said. Standing in front of Nehru, speaking, used to speak repeatedly. We have taken the initiative to do electricity to the house. Giving the connection of free gas to the poor from the poor house. Now in the coming five years, we are going to work with full dedication on water problem. Brothers and sisters, our country has become a very big thinker politician, Ram Manohar Lohia ji Today, in the name of socialism, the leaders who are sitting on the wealth of wealth, they wear out wearing red caps. Give slogans of socialism, Ram Manohar Lohia ji said 50 years ago that two problems of women of our country are main. One of the water and the second panache. First of all remove the two troubles of the women of our country. 50 years ago socialist doctor Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said. Standing in front of Nehru, speaking, used to speak repeatedly. We have taken the initiative to do electricity to the house. Giving the connection of free gas to the poor from the poor house. Now in the coming five years, we are going to work with full dedication on water problem. Brothers and sisters, our country has become a very big thinker politician, Ram Manohar Lohia ji Today, in the name of socialism, the leaders who are sitting on the wealth of wealth, they wear out wearing red caps. Give slogans of socialism, Ram Manohar Lohia ji said 50 years ago that two problems of women of our country are main. One of the water and the second panache. First of all remove the two troubles of the women of our country. 50 years ago socialist doctor Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said. Standing in front of Nehru, speaking, used to speak repeatedly. Ram Manohar Lohia ji became a very big leader in our country. Today, in the name of socialism, the leaders who are sitting on the wealth of wealth, they wear out wearing red caps. Give slogans of socialism, Ram Manohar Lohia ji said 50 years ago that two problems of women of our country are main. One of the water and the second panache. First of all remove the two troubles of the women of our country. 50 years ago socialist doctor Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said. Standing in front of Nehru, speaking, used to speak repeatedly. Ram Manohar Lohia ji became a very big leader in our country. Today, in the name of socialism, the leaders who are sitting on the wealth of wealth, they wear out wearing red caps. Give slogans of socialism, Ram Manohar Lohia ji said 50 years ago that two problems of women of our country are main. One of the water and the second panache. First of all remove the two troubles of the women of our country. 50 years ago socialist doctor Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said. Standing in front of Nehru, speaking, used to speak repeatedly. Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said 50 years ago that two problems of women of our country are main. One of the water and the second panache. First of all remove the two troubles of the women of our country. 50 years ago socialist doctor Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said. Standing in front of Nehru, speaking, used to speak repeatedly. Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said 50 years ago that two problems of women of our country are main. One of the water and the second panache. First of all remove the two troubles of the women of our country. 50 years ago socialist doctor Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said. Standing in front of Nehru, speaking, used to speak repeatedly.

Brothers and sisters, these people have not listened to it, it is Modi. I have campaigned for the last five years to prepare the toilet for the lohiya ji's plan to fulfill the dream. Mothers were consumed to honor the sisters. In the next five years, my mother and sisters, I am your farmer, my brother and sister, for you, for my power, my strength is water. Get clean water from home and drinking water, farmers get irrigation water. My intention is to solve many problems of my country with water. My sisters who have to wander far and wide for water. Their lives are easy to make. Companions, I express gratitude to every common family who is standing with me like a rock. In the past five years, we have built 1.5 crore houses for the poor. This is 6 times higher than the Congress. We are committed to giving every poor house to 2022. No poor of this country will be such that there will not be a permanent house. This is Modi's promise. I will tell you again that the dream of a dream home is not yours. My every poor brother and sister, every homeless brother and sister who is your dream. Write today, your dream is my dream too. And if you have a dream then my dream is full of resolution. I want to fulfill this dream by taking a resolution. Brothers and sisters, today Ayushman Bharat Scheme has given the country the confidence to the poor that now the shortage of money will not be obstructing better health. Free treatment of up to five lakh rupees is avoided by many families today, along with the disease, in horrific poverty.Bhaio sisters, I started the election campaign by saying that the past five years were fulfilling the basic requirements and the next five years will be for the fulfillment of the hopes and aspirations. Our thinking and vision is clear. The country with the world's largest young population can not see small dreams. Dreams, ambitions and goals should be high. I sincerely believe that if we try sincerely towards the big goal we will also get it. Friends, we will make such a social system where no one feels lost. Everyone should feel connected to development. Every person in the country has a bank account, village poor, poor from poor, also be recognized by the bank. Digital transactions became part of normal life. The village-village has access to fast Internet access. We have come out to build such a new India. Villagers of poor village also have to be identified by the bank. Digital transactions became part of normal life. The village-village has access to fast Internet access. We have come out to build such a new India.

Brothers and sisters, all the resolutions will be proven only when we wholeheartedly join us in the journey of all new India. All Khargone and Dhar people have appealed to the voters to reach the polling booth on May 19. Press the button on lotus mark Give strong support to a strong government for strong India, and brothers and sisters, when you will go to the polling booth, press the button on lotus marks. When your finger presses the button on the lotus mark you will take five seconds. But I will pay you for five years. Your five seconds will become my five-year owner. You are my master You are my high command. When you press the button on the lotus mark, then they are not just pressing your finger. You are pressing the trigger of the terrorists in the chest shot. When you press the button on the lotus marks, the tricolor flag is visible in the world. When you press the button on the lotus mark then press the button to protect the mothers and sisters of the country. When you press the button on the lotus mark then you guarantee the bright future of the youth of the country. Brothers and sisters, when you press the button on the lotus marks, the farmers of our country, in true sense, become the destiny of India and hence press the button on lotus marks. And so I say your five seconds my five years. Your five seconds my five years If you press me with a button on five seconds lotus mark, I have come to dedicate this five years to you.

Brothers and sisters, today I am on Bhima Nayak's land, I started this journey to thank the country from Meerut. I am concluding today my journey to thank the country with the blessings of Ajaa Bhima Nayak from this land. The support you gave me for five years, I am telling the entire country from the land of Bhima Nayak, from the land of Shaheed Veer, telling all the voters of the country. Who have been voted. I am also telling them I am also going to vote on the 19th of the fifth year that you gave me love, which blessed me, who supported me. Every time you walk with me, I am proud of myself, bowing down, bowing down to the countrymen, thanking you and for the next five years, my people who have blessed, and who are going to give blessings to 19 . All of them, I assure them all that in order to fulfill your dream, I will give you five seconds to complete my five years. I assure this. Brothers and sisters, I once again thank the countrymen for their heartfelt gratitude at the last meeting of this 2019 election. And I express my gratitude for the decision that you have given me to take responsibility again. And when you press the button on the lotus marks, your vote will be directly directed to Modi's account.
Speak with me, Bharat Mata Ki Jai

Raise both fists, fraying a handful of equal fist should be done with full force that Bhima is the land of the hero. This is the land of the mighty sons, it is the land of goddess Mothers. 
Bharat mata ki jai, Bharat mata ki jai, Bharat mata ki ji 
, thank you very much, greetings to the countrymen



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - -
995.

16/05/19



Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

All the people settled on the banks of the Ganga, to the son of the Ganga mother's salutation.

Brothers and Sisters , In this election campaign of 2019 , the whole country has extended its support to this servant, but the people of West Bengal are going to take a specific responsibility. His servants became a strong government , created a vibrant , vibrant government, so the people of West Bengal have decided that they will cross 300 seats to BJP . Brothers , now I landed from Helipad, I had to go out of the car and do road shows. The people I see here are 3 times more than that standing on both sides of the helipad. I express my gratitude to you with your wonderful love. Take them down on these platforms ,This whole stage will fall down. The gentleman with that red shirt, you come down, brother, who are up all come down. See if any of your losses are my loss. Please come down. Look, I will get hurt so much that I will get hurt. Well, very smart people are.

Sisters and brothers , BJP public with this special blessing Bengal , mean sister democracy is being convincing. As Sister, West Bengal is sitting in its understanding fiefdom of his nephew , is the way of behaving , her country know well.

Comrades , during the election campaign and especially the last 3-4 is happening here today , he would have to meet all. TMC goons had made a hell here , the type of violence has spread here , has been maligned because of republic. The kind of storm that these TMC members made and the locked in a room where the lock was there , the statue of great educationist , social reformer Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar ji was broken at night . There are CCTV cameras in that college . What's delete-proof Naarada-Sharda's government , as evidence is also engaged in purging. This clearly shows that what can be done to Didi for politics of votebank?  

Sethiyo , Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar ji was not only the son of Bengal but also the entire nation. By harming their idol, those who have done the work, have done this sin ; Those who harm the idol should be subjected to strict action , strict punishment should be done, it is my demand. From the brothers and sisters , Swami Vivekanand to Shyama Prasad Mukherjee has been a major contributor to Bengal's culture in shaping the Bharatiya Janata Party's contemplation. Protecting the pride of Bengal, it is the priority of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Wherever Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar will be there today , he will be looking at which party is fighting to protect the pride of Bengal and who is working to protect the intruders.   

Setho , this is BJP , who raised the first voice against the tyranny in Bengal. There is a problem with the Durga Puja , Saraswati problem with worship , Jai Shri Ram speak is also a crime here. The people of Bengal were troubled by these things for some years. Who came these subjects on the national table , which party today is the voice of Bengal ? The answer is the same and it is the Bhartiya Janta Party.

Brothers and sisters , the frustration of defeat is scaring Sister in such a way that he has come down on all threats. Early in the morning, I have been threatened with sending the prison. In the media yesterday I saw that Sister has threatened to occupy the office of the BJP , at the BJP office. Sister , BJP workers are also threatening to take over the house. Sister , the identity you have created between the public , the reason for this is your blind run for land and property. With this mentality, now you have to grab BJP's offices , with this mentality, West Bengal is troubled by you and has decided to pack your borea-bedding. Mamta Didi ,Jai and defeat in the election goes on. This is part of democracy. Sometimes the people of this Bengal gave you such affection , today the same people today, the common man wants to take you away. Do not be afraid , accept the truth of Bengal.

Brothers and sisters , sister is not worried about the common man of West Bengal , only and only the ego of power. The Prime Minister of India , do not believe their prime minister, but praised the Pakistani prime minister, he would not get tired. The children of Bengal , has also jailed on talk-talk daughters of Bengal, but he peeled off the intruders and smugglers. Didi goons attack BJP workers , hang them on the gallows, but sister moves forward to do so. After all, in what direction Bengal is going to take it.

Brothers and sisters , together with their nephew, they have run a syndicate of collators and smugglers. Who has disturbed the Bengali man and kept a speed breaker on the development of West Bengal.

Brothers and sisters , the Modi government is directly depositing money in the bank account of the farmers of the whole country, but Sister's government has come to sleep. The poor families in the whole country have got free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh every year, but sister has also deprived the poor here.  

Brothers and sisters , Siddi is taking the path of loot in every work that makes life easier for the poor. This servant from Delhi, who sends you his sticker in the help he sends for you so that he can easily be shot. Brothers , this place is very small, do not try to come forward , I am grateful for your love. Do not push each other up. Look, some mothers have brought small children too, they should not have trouble. You are giving so much love, there are so many blessings, just be a little patience.  

Brothers and sisters , cheap rationing plan , house plan , has put his sticker sister on plans to build the road and all central schemes. Hey! Sticker sister, put your sticker. It does not have any problem with me, but do it in a different way , do the job for the country. This is the work of the country , the poor have so much to be honest, and you will get the virtue too.

Brothers and sisters , the roads of the village are being created fast in the whole country but in West Bengal the condition is bad. Ganga ji is not able to make the government here till the bridge, while our effort is to strengthen the connectivity of the coastal shores of the country. For this the ports under Sagarmala are being linked to the roads across the country. The water route has been developed from Gurdwara like Haldia to Varanasi, similarly work on the water route of other rivers is also being done. This will benefit the seaside areas, where employment opportunities will be created.

We are working extensively for the convenience of our fishermen and sisters , brothers and sisters . We have announced that a separate ministry department will be set up for fishermen. So far the fish business was operated under the Animal Husbandry Department. Now different departments will do all these work. Not only this, for the fishermen, farmers have been given the facility of Kisan credit card like that.   

Friends , on one side we are busy making people's life easier , the Trinamool is making your life difficult on the basis of your felony, it is important to close this Gorakh business. You have to remember only one thing, silent chalk-lotus imprint .

 

Speak a slogan with me , you speak a slogan all with me , speak all of them , speak all of them ? I will say silent chops, you will say lotus imprint. Quiet arc ... lotus imprint , silent arc ... lotus imprint , silent arc ... lotus imprint , silent arc ... lotus imprint , silent arc ... lotus impression and second slogan call , booth - TMC from booth Fair , booth - clean TMC booth. Booth = - From booth ... TMC clean , booth - from booth ... TMC clean , booth - booth ... TMC clean , booth- From the booth ... TMC clean Quiet arc ... lotus imprint , silent arc ... lotus imprint , silent arc ... lotus imprint.   

Brothers - sisters , lying on lotus impression will each vote for Modi's account. Brothers - sisters , their government , their goons , their oppression , you can not do anything. Go to the booth and let someone else do not press the button, you press the button on the lotus marks with your finger. Will go to the polls , everyone will go , will vote heavily , will win the BJP ?

I am very grateful to you. You came to bless such a large amount, now close the fist by both hands up and talk to me.

Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

Thanks a lot.



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - -
994.

16/05/19


Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai

Today I have the limit of time. Friends, only two days left for the seventh phase. There are only seven days left in the coming Lok Sabha elections. The announcement will be announced on May 23, once again ... Modi Government

Brothers and sisters, those great people who had been melting away from Modi for a month-long ago, they were frustrated, they are scared today. On his defeat, the whole country has stamped and Uttar Pradesh has gone ahead and spoiled the mathematics. So their abuses are increasing every day. Brothers and sisters, in fact the country knows the truth of these great parties from the very first day. The country knows that Modi slogan's slogan was a pretext. In fact, he had to hide the sin of his corruption, so he is trying to make a conspiracy government in the country. They wanted a compulsive government in the country to blackmail them according to their needs. But this is a new India, it kills the terrorists in the house and who knows their home, their society, they want to weaken their country, they know them well, even know.

Brothers and sisters, here in Uttar Pradesh, SP-BSP tried an opportunistic alliance on the basis of caste. Sitting in the AC room in Lucknow, the deal was over and over but these leaders, who were cut off from the ground, forgot their workers. As a result, the SP and BSP workers are still attacking each other. The second mistake was made by the SP-BSP thinking that their votes would be transferred to each other for both parties. Brothers and sisters, these people considered some nations as their slaves. After the first time in 2014, after explaining for the second time in 2017, in 2019 Uttar Pradesh is going to explain to these parties a little bit right that the castes are not your slaves. People think that they are voted for development, for the sake of development, it is voted to take the country forward.

Brothers and sisters, these people gained power only in the name of caste, and then used power to build bungalows for themselves, to make their relatives millionaires, billionaires. Beauya or babua, these people have removed themselves from the poor so that these people around them have built a high wall of money, musical instruments, their courtiers, that they should see the sadness of the poor Do not come. Brothers and sisters, apart from these great people, I am very sincerely trying to make life of poor easier. For decades I have been waiting for the facilities which were waiting for him. The poor should get a firm house, there should be electricity connection in the house, the connection of the gas, the toilets, the bank should have an account, the vaccination of his child on time, he got cheaper treatment, he got cheaper ration, he reached the road to his house, We are working on these goals. Friends, I have also been involved in giving direct help to bank accounts of those farmers' families.

|
Friends, on one hand these servants are busy empowering the daughters of the country. At the same time, they humiliate the daughters for the maiden vote. Our government has also taken the lead in the release of three divorces of hell from Muslim husbands, but these mahila people, together with Muslim women and girls, stopped interfering in justice. The government wants that Muslim women get the right to raise their voices against three divorces in the realm of their faith, according to their feelings, but these Mahamalivatti parties are not letting that happen. What is the attitude of these people, it is also seen in a candidate with a mismatch. The SP-BSP has given ticket to such candidate who is runaway for rape charges. History of Samajwadi Party People of UP know but sister-in-law will ask you to vote for such candidates.

Brothers and sisters, in the time of SP, there was a situation of daughters in UP, they all know this. But your behavior towards sister-in-law women's security is also now under question. A few days ago, gang was raped in Alwar, Rajasthan with a Dalit daughter. There is a Congress government running in support of sister Jee. The Congress government tried to hide that monstrous crime with the Dalit daughter, considering the elections. Sister knows everything but instead of withdrawing support from the Congress government, she is engaged in giving abusive speech to Modi. This attitude of sister-in-law, with Dalit Bitia, tells that these mahamilavati can deceive anyone for their selfishness. Our government is committed to brother-in-law, women's interests, women's protection. For the first time in the history of freedom, this janitor has made provision of punishment for the rape. I have women here, Specially to the women of the Purvanchal, I will insist that they vote against such anti-women parties with full force. Vote for women's dignity, their dignity, their interests Pressing the button on the lotus marks means the sentence of the gallows hanging. Pressing the button on the lotus marks means house-toilets, house-to-house facilities.

Sister-in-law, I was on my way to come here and found out that sister Jyani has targeted me for West Bengal and has taken the Election Commission back. I was thinking that the way Mamata didi is targeting the people of UP, Bihar and Purvanchal, she is doing her politics by expressing herself as an outsider. Sister Mayawati will definitely tell Mamta Didi something wrong, but it has not happened because she is not worried about you, she has to play the chair game.

Together, after the meeting in UP, I am going to Bengal once again. The Chief Minister of Bengal, the Chief Minister of democracy, the democracy of India, the Prime Minister who has been chosen by the blessings of 130 crore countrymen, the Bengal Chief Minister does not accept his Prime Minister. He considers the Prime Minister of Pakistan as the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister of India does not believe in the Prime Minister. And brothers and sisters, today when I am going to Bengal, I assure the people of the country. I remember a few months ago when my rally was in West Medinipur, then what kind of chaos was spread by TMC there. After this there was my public meeting in Thakurnagar in Bengal, this condition had been made that I had to leave my address in the middle and leave the forum. A few days ago, for the rally in Cooch Behar, where to be the stage, At the same time, Sister had made a big platform for her party. These are all you have been doing in the anti-democratic mindset of power. Sister's attitude I have been seeing for a long time, now the whole country is also watching. Today is my rally in Dumdum in Kolkata this evening. Let's see if he lets the rally or not, if he walks out, our helicopter will not let it down.

 

Sageo, these grandfathers of TMC's goodies were also seen on every other night. During the road show of brother Amit Shah in Kolkata, the goons of TMC broke the statue of Ishwarachandra Vidyasagar. Those who do so should be punished with harsh punishment. At the same time, I would like to say that our government, devoted to the vision of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, will establish an idol of Panchdhat at that place and answer TMC goons. Ishwarachandra Vidyasagar is not just Bengal but India's great figure. He was also a great social reformer, not just a educationist but a patron of dalits and poor people. For the rights of women, they had raised a voice in that period, all of what we have done for the service of humanity are all indebted to us. Our government is working to take the country to a new height with the inspiration of such people of the country. The BJP Government's origin was Bengal culture, Devotion is there. From Ved Vivekanand and from Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose to Doctor Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, our brainstorming has affected Bengal's energy only.                 

Brothers and sisters, in the 21st century, the country needs a vibrant, full-fledged government. A strong government can fulfill the slogan of Jai Jawan-Jai farmers. Only a strong India can dream of a developed India can be true. Only strong government can develop eastern and eastern India. This is the reason that we have given special priority to this entire area. RAILWAY HOO, ROAD HOO, GANGANI on the water route, this whole area is being rejuvenated. This will create new employment opportunities for enterprises, for the industries here. Friends, this time Ghosi has to break the record of the last time, feeding lotus on each booth. Your every vote will go straight into Modi's account. I came to bless you in such a large number, I am very grateful to you.

Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai, thank you very much.



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
993.

15/05/19


Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata

First of all, I express my condolences to the families of the BJP and West Bengal who have been killed by the goons of TMC during the last few tenures and I wish them health soon. Friends, I assure you that your sacrifice for democracy will not be in vain.

Brothers and sisters, p. Your courage to re-establish the republic in Bengal is your desire to see the whole nation with great respect. Didi got off to the destruction of guns, bullets and bombs. But my devotion to democracy is due to my devotion to my siblings of Bengal. This is your courage Josh will uproot this tyrannical power of Mamta's sister one day or two. Friends, the whole country has seen pictures of Kolkata yesterday. Today it is being discussed in the whole country. Brothers and sisters, p. The BJP has been frightened by the BJP wave in Bengal, and at what level has the nervous sister stepped down, she is also watching the country and the world. Mamta didi had announced two days ago and she had said that she would take revenge of inch inch. He had declared this publicly, and he had declared his two agendas, and within 24 hours, he attacked Bhai Amit Shah ji, the national president of Bharatiya Janata Party. There was a great effort to scare away violence by attacking his road show. After violence, sister and students of your university are starting to open their politics. Didi, which democracy gave you the title of Chief Minister with so much respect, with so much respect.

Today, in the power of the intoxicating power, you have come to strangle the same democracy. Sister is the medium of service then power. You are making a mistake to understand the power and the public as your slave. Didi cheat the people to cheat you, chitfundLoot the money of the poor in the name of you loot Sitting on the road to save the corrupt, you sit and sit on your own; If the people of Bengal asked for your account, then you came upon giving abusive language and started giving threats. Violence started arson. But do you think Modi will be scared of your abuse and threats? Mamata didi is not Modi in those who easily fall. You do not know that Modi's defense is 130 crore country people. For me, these millions of companions of the country are their own. I am in the same ground for them, and so sister is not affected by your abuse and threats. Sister-in-law, today Sister is afraid of her own shadow, trembling is shocking. Because this time their land has slipped. Today, the same voice is coming from the rampart of Bengal. Within 2019, his sister's address is going to be clean.

And brothers and sisters, p. The way the sister is flown in Bengal. Is doing violence. He has clarified another thing. Par. This time with the blessings of the people of Bengal, keep writing this word on my own and on the BJP Akheel on your own. In the fifth or sixth phase, the number of surveys has come as much as Opinion has come. There has been a voice from across the country to give BJP the absolute majority for BJP alone. But seeing your flurry and seeing the support of the people of Bengal, today I am telling you from Bengal on the ground that Bengal will now be able to cross the 300 seats ahead with the full majority.

That is, the BJP will cross 300 seats and Bengal will have a big role in it. And you can also speculate that when the BJP alone crosses 300, then the NDA is going to get even more seats. Setho, sister thought that she would continue to rule the country by threatening and intimidating the people here. But in the land where Ram Krishna Paramahansa , Swami Vivekananda, Rabindranath TagoreThe people of the people, the people of this country, are not going to tolerate this behavior of their sister. Therefore Bengal has made the mind of the people of Bengal that now there is water to get rid of sister. Didi not have to stay in power. Brothers and sisters, if you do not get hurt by the fear of snatching the masterpiece, then what else will you do? Saathiya, in the last four to five days, Sister has shown her appearance. His testimony has also been his court in Delhi.

|
Saathiya, four years ago, in a program on TV, when a bit of Mamta Didi of Bengal's Bengali girl in Kolkata asked for some questions and she was so flabbergasted. He was viral on TV, is still running on social media. This ego did not flare up even today three or four years ago. They got so angry that in the TV interview that Mamta Didi stepped down the mike, she gave away two daughters of the college and raped her and she escaped from there. Now sister again showed similar anger with one of the daughters of Bengal, angry also that such daughter was put in jail by Mamta Didi. Didi what you are doing in your ego The person who took the name of God, he also put him in prison. Here the BJP leaders are not allowed to rally. Voters are not allowed to vote. The candidates are being attacked. Even grandfather of Netaji Subhash Chandra BoseEven your goons have not left. Didi are bent on taking the Bengal into which era? I am reminded that such a thing happened after the emergency when the election was held. People were prevented from voting like this. Mamta Didi brought you Bengal in that phase of the Emergency. And keep writing my words, this suppression is not limited to the BJP workers, it is your fight that you have waged against the people of Bengal. And the people of Bengal are quietly going to teach you by pressing the lotus impression.

But do not forget that this is the 21st century India if If the people of Bengal can sit on the seventh sky, then the people can also bring them back to the ground. Remember this is democracy, sister will remember these words. The daughters whom you are cutting down in jail, daughters are now going to punish you, they are going to teach you a lesson. Mamta didi This land belongs to Durga, mother is Saraswati.You have also insulted the mother by insulting the daughters. So angry for just one picture, sister you are yourself artistic painting. You are also a painter. And listening to Narada, chanting Sharda's name sells your paintings in millions of rupees. Today, from this platform, sister from Bengal will ask you to cool your anger, you are an artist, you are a painter, you make a picture of me dirty from the unsightly filthy dirty. You must make sure, and after 23 May, after the oath of Prime Minister, I will come back to my place of residence and give me a terrible picture which I have created from you, offer me a gift, I will accept it with love and my life will be filled with love. I will keep it I will not insist on you. What are you doing sister

Brothers and sisters, sister is not thinking about development of Bengal but just about your boat bank. Is worrying about your chair. They feel that their gangling gang, their intruder gang will flourish like this. They feel that their party's treasure will continue to grow with smuggling and smugglers. But this dream of sister is about to break. Once again on May 23 when the Modi government Once again, Modi sarakar. Once again the Modi government. Once again the Modi government will come, then we will reduce intruders identity. Which is illegal The people of Bengal are eating their rights, they will be identified. But brothers and sisters, our fellow who speaks the glory of Bharat Mata, for whom India is the only hope, For them, the management of citizenship is also going to be done with us. This arrangement will be provided to them on time and on the right benefits of every scheme of the Government of India. Such arrangements will be made that they do not have to be forced to face the TMC and the syndicate. Sister-in-law, what is the attitude of sister about the country's security, you have also seen this. After being a surgical strike, after the air strikes, it is necessary to teach a lesson to the one who questioned his own sons. It is necessary to teach a lesson to Pakistan, who will fight against the interests of the country.

And brother-in-law, sister-in-law has done so much, has lost so much mental balance, she says that I am not ready to accept the Prime Minister of India as the Prime Minister. He is ready to accept the Prime Minister of Pakistan as the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of India is not ready to accept the Prime Minister. Did you get what happened ? Can you forgive such a sister ? Can you forgive ? Will punishment ? Fine punishment ? Brothers and sisters, you have to leave home to vote fearlessly. Your vote on the lotus imprint will ensure freedom from the intruders. Lotus Imprint Your one vote will ensure effective action on cow smugglers. Your lotus will ensure strict punishment to every criminal involved in the garners of a vote chit fund.

You have a vote till 2022 Every poor of Bengal will ensure their home. Your vote will ensure direct help in every bank's bank account three times a year. A vote your lotus got will ensure a strong government in Delhi. Who will be able to take strong and big decisions in your interest. Friends, on May 19th you have to reach a large number of booths. And the only thing to do is silently print the lotus, quietly lotus imprint, quietly lotus imprint, quietly print pen, quietly lotus imprint, the second slogan. TMC clean with booth booth, TMC clean with booth booth, TMC cleaner with booth booth, TMC clean with booth booth, TMC cleaner from booth booth, quiet lotus imprint, quiet lotus imprint, TSP cleaner from booth booth, TMC from booth booth clean. Your every vote will be directly in Modi's account. I thank you for coming to bless us in such a large number. Speak with me

Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai

Thanks a lot   

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
992.

15/05/19



Mr. Raghuvar Das, the popular Chief Minister of the state, who is present on the stage, here is the former Chief Minister Bhai Arjuna ji, the State President of Bharatiya Janata Party, all the candidates of all Bharatiya Janata Party in this election, all our leaders, all NDA leaders at the stage And my dear brothers and sisters who came to bless us all. The people who are here are just as much as I do not know where they will be heard or not. This is such an awkward example of what is going on on such a huge public meeting, 23rd.


Brothers and sisters, Baba Baidyanath and Baba Basukinath have been pleased with us, we pay my respects at the feet of Baba.

With the blessings of Baba, the country has decided that once again ... Modi government, once again ... Modi Government Today, in Baba Dham, I have come to take this blessing from you that we fulfill our resolve to develop the country, we can fulfill every criterion. Brothers and sisters, I have full faith that Santhal Pargana will clear the maternity leave completely on May 19 like the rest of the country.


Friends, the whole nation has seen how the BJP-NDA strong and honest government has worked in the past five years. What are the results coming out on 23rd May, the Congress of the country's oldest party is now well understood. That's why he has started preparing for the results. Now you should have been thinking when the victory is going to be BJP-NDA, then Congress will make preparations.

Brothers, Congress is preparing that after the defeat, whose right party to break on the head? Exercise is going on for what is to be done to save the Namdhari. Now the Congress can not say that the election lost due to the nominee. These will be against the principles of dynasty, so you must have seen that only after the fifth phase, the two closest courtiers of the Namdari family started batting on their behalf. Otherwise, they do not have the courage to ask the captain, get into the play grounds.

 


Brothers and sisters, a batsman is a master of Namdhari, who has been landed first in the field. He ridiculed the sentiments of the Sikhs and said that the 1984 riots had happened, if it happened ... then happened. Knowing that the old wounds of Sikh brothers and sisters would be green, Namdhari got this statement from his master. The other batsman, who were out of the ground since the hit wicket during the Gujarat elections. I was hiding behind the scenes after abusing me. They have reached the ground for two days and are giving me abuses by furiously. Brothers and sisters, there are huge meetings going on in the Congress at this time, it is being formulated that how Namdhari should be saved, by doing anything, the Congress does not want to give responsibility for losing its name. That is why in the Congress, there is a rivalry for those who have lost their nails.

Brothers and sisters, the 55-year government of a 55-year-old government of the Congress and the difference of 55-months government given to Modi today is not only the whole world feeling India. Today, in the country, rapid growth is going on, while poverty is decreasing as fast as possible. We have seen five years running an honest, transparent government. A scam of scam is not on this government, and when I am saying this in Baba Dham, I am proud of the fact that the people of the country have given a good fortune to lead their devotees to lead an honest government.

The brothers and sisters, the Congress or the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, can not think of nothing except lies, propaganda, deceit, with these great people. Their strategy and whole politics are based on rumors. Let me tell my colleagues who live in the forests with their holy dhamas, then they can cheat anyone in this forest for votes. Be assured that, unless Modi is, till the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), your land will not be able to give any right to your rights.


Friends, Congress has ruled the country for so many years, but has always used the tribal community as a vote bank only. While Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji did not make the Jharkhand state in view of tribal interests, the tribal ministry was also giving him the government's responsibility. Brothers and sisters, your servants are moving forward on Dagar-Dagar today by the inspiration of Atal ji. With his inspiration, we have ensured rights to the tribal communities in the forest. Part of the benefits of mining will be spent in the same area. For this, we have made a formal law and due to this, Jharkhand has also got an additional sum of about 6 thousand crore rupees. Schools, toilets, drinking water, roads and other means of employment are being made from these money.

We have been trying to ensure that tribals get the maximum benefit of forest produce through Sathyio, Van Dhan and Jan Dhan Yojana, to get rid of them from the middlemen. We have also expanded the scope of MSP on forest produce. MSP was used only on the first 10 forest produce, now its number has been increased to 50.

Friends, we are continuously working to make the lives of our farmers easy. Under PM Kisan Yojana, we are directly depositing the help of farmers' accounts. In Jharkhand, the government of Raghuveer ji is also helping the farmers of this region get double benefits.

Friends, we are fully committed to building facilities here to develop Baba Dham. This is the reason that airport and railways are also being developed along with airport facilities. The establishment of the airport will create more opportunities in the field of tourism. At the same time, the multi-model port on Ganga ja in Sahibganj will promote industries in this area, create employment opportunities.

Sathiyo is also emerging as a major center in the case of Deoghar Health Services. The AIIMS being built here is going to work with the entire Santhal Pargana including people from Odisha and West Bengal. Apart from this, under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, the poor have been deprived of the tribals, and the beneficiaries have already started receiving free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh.
 

Brothers and sisters, when trying hard to get out of poverty by trying hard, some reach the edge, but if a family gets sick, the poor generation becomes poor again. I have come among these poor people and that is why I have decided that poverty will not be poor due to sickness. He will come out of poverty and he will worry about the disease, I promise you this.

Brothers and sisters, on one hand we are dedicated to the development of Jharkhand, while on the other side the people of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and the Congress are standing with intruders. But BJP has a clear view that we will identify one intruder in the country. This is a big threat to our security as well as our security and we need to wake up. On topics such as brothers and sisters, Nation Defense, the Congress and its partners have been locked in their mouths, they are silent. Recently, you saw what happened in Sri Lanka on the holy occasion of Easter. The terrorists killed hundreds of people in the church, hotels, bombing.

Friends, terrorism is a challenge that must be fought very strictly but the policies of the Congress and its comrades have been such that they can not crush terrorism and Naxalism.

Brothers, I want to ask you, will you answer? Will all give up? You must have seen who are contesting on 8 seats, they are still stitching their clothes to become Prime Minister. Those who are contesting on 20 seats are also preparing clothes to become Prime Minister, who is fighting 40 seats. These faces are standing in the queue of becoming Prime Minister, remember each one face, have a sister, be a brother, remember whoever is, and tell me, who among them has the power to fight against terrorism, Who keeps Who can rush through terrorism? Who can end terrorism and no one understands this, I have been telling people of the world for many years, No one will think that terrorism has just arrived, tomorrow will not come here. Look at this in Sri Lanka, the festival of Easter was going on and the terrorists attacked and attacked the church. All who will have to escape will have to come up with the forces that end terrorism. Congress now wants to eliminate the law of sedition, that is, the Congress wants to give an open rebate to those who give stone water, terrorists and their supporters, Maoists and those who give them the fertilizer. But friends, the BJP will not let them do such a thing. We are moving into a new method, new policy. During our government, the heroic heroes of the country have killed the terrorists in the house. Did not do that right? Modi is doing fine? Should fight like this against terrorism or fight it? The Congress wants to give an open rebate to the Maoists and those who give them the fertilizer. But friends, the BJP will not let them do such a thing. We are moving into a new method, new policy. During our government, the heroic heroes of the country have killed the terrorists in the house. Did not do that right? Modi is doing fine? Should fight like this against terrorism or fight it? The Congress wants to give an open rebate to the Maoists and those who give them the fertilizer. But friends, the BJP will not let them do such a thing. We are moving into a new method, new policy. During our government, the heroic heroes of the country have killed the terrorists in the house. Did not do that right? Modi is doing fine? Should fight like this against terrorism or fight it?

Sathiyo, the tribal society which has taken the iron from the British, where Lord Bisara Munda has a rich heritage, can not accept the social and social breakthrough that breaks the country and the country.
Friends, among these conspiracies of Congress, your servants are committed to respecting our soldiers and our tribal heroes. That is why memorials of tribal heroes are being made in many states of the country including Jharkhand. Brothers and sisters, this path of development is strong, and for this, it is necessary to feed Lotus with full power in Santhal Pargana. And brothers, do you think people who are connected to the earth, how do they decide? This is our Santhal Pargana, our tradition is our specialty, our culture is very valuable. This is the pride of India, but people sitting in Delhi did not care about it, care was not there. The announcement that we have started in the railway language I saw that while speaking in Santali language, the number of people in the compartment tries to play. Now this work, this work could not have been done earlier, Could not have been? Was this work difficult? But the arrogance in them is full of them, they think that Santhali, Santhali think that this is the reason that this misery has happened.

Brothers in my heart, in childhood, that is, some years ago, I had read interviews of a cine artist. The film artist, here was some of his experiences in Santhal, his experiences were written, so Mrigaya was made in the film. Here he was shooting and he was the artist who was doing his arrows in tribal dress and our Santhal All of them were sitting quietly watching the shooting and watching from very disciplined ones. Running for two to two days, three-three days, all went in peace and one day he was walking a scene, running an arrow, all the people ran rage with anger, started fighting with one's temper, then he said, what is your brother? Gaya? Shooting for two to three days is going on peacefully and today why suddenly all of them got angry, what was the displeasure? So when I read this, my respect for people in my Santhal has increased so that I was not in politics then What was the event The artist who was an archer was running the arrow, he used to use his thumb while driving the arrow, then the Santal soldiers came and stopped him and insulted our traditions. People of Santhal do not use arrows because of the thumb, because Eklavya gave thumbs in donation, after that we do not use that thumb of his descendants.

The land on which the glory of this glorious culture has been given to the brothers, for what we do for them is less, whatever they do is less. And that's why I want you to be your own instead of the Prime Minister. Brothers, I am your own. I am for you and development has probably not seen this area in 70 years. This Modi will give tax, I have come to promise you this.

Brothers, your every vote on Kamal's flower will come in Modi's account and that's why you vote heavily on the 19th day and which will once again be to form a Modi government. With the belief that you are also going to form the government, press the button on the lotus. Brothers, the new ones which will be formed in Parliament, all the lotus in Jharkhand should be decorated. All the meetings of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are winning, and in 1975, the BJP and our allies will win all the seats of all. And so brothers and sisters, I once again thank your heart. I come to bless you in such a large number. I congratulate you with my heart. Speak with me

Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai 
Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai 
Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai 
Much Thanks.



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
991.

15/05/19



Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai

On the stage, the popular chief minister Bhai Nitish ji, Ramvilas ji, Sushil ji, Nityanand ji All the senior nobles, who have occupied the stage, have all the Bharatiya Janata Party candidates and our beloved brothers and sisters in large numbers to bless us all. I know, it is difficult to gather in the days of election too hard, but it is your love, you are blessed that you have attended such a large amount in this gathering. And I am still seeing, people are coming all the way, wherever and where I see it, this is a wonderful sight. These people in Delhi will not be able to guess what these countries are changing, how is this country changing?

 

I am overwhelmed with the love of all of you, sister, Bihar, I am grateful. Your love for NDA, this support motivates me to serve you day and night. Sathiyo, after the 6th phase of voting, the country is clearly saying, once again ... Modi Government Now we just have to make sure that these victories are grand and divine. For this, in the last phase, you have to reach the booth. Brothers and sisters, I came to Bihar even for a few times even though the love of Bihar was not going to be reduced. These all my companions always used to say that if you have to go to any other part of India, then definitely go, we will handle this. And I also know that the power to handle Bihar more than me is in this whole gang, but I came again and again, in different parts of Bihar because I wanted to take my blessings by myself. Taking your blessings, This is a great fortune in itself. When the eyes of the people fall on you, there is a blessing in the form of blessings and therefore I am coming between you.

 

Brothers and sisters, in a way, your love is so much that I do not need to ask for votes but my duty is to thank you by bowing down, because you have given me every moment. Whole Bihar has supported me, 130 crore nationals have supported me. So today in this type of election campaign, this is my 6th meeting of Bihar and I want to thank them by bowing their head and also those who have voted in the 6th phase and also the voters of the seventh phase. Also of the seventh step I know, after the fourth, fifth phase, all the surveyors have said that once the Modi government is formed, the NDA government is forming. Nobody minds when the result of elections is decided in the fourth and fifth phase, why is Modi doing hard work till the seventh phase? Modi is working hard because one of my party's NDA all my allies, The small worker works from the house-to-house to the sunshine, then who am I, I am also the worker, I will also work. That's why I came here today to thank you and thank you for coming here.

Brothers and sisters, those greats who had dreamed of a forced government in Delhi, the country has flooded their hopes. Brothers and sisters, whichever these greats are, they are contesting with gross negativity, they have two issues, spoil the image of Modi and remove Modi. But these great people do not realize that Modi is here today with the blessings of 130 crore Indians. I have been working for nearly two decades as a friend, chief minister, and prime minister.

Brothers and sisters, public Janaradan is the form of God and I see God in the public. I have considered these posts as a prasad given by the people, I have accepted this offering by bowing down to the offerings. I have received the sacraments of Prasad, I have always kept the dignity and dignity of Prasad. The sacraments that I have received have saved the sacraments but these Mahamalavati see these posts with greedy eyes so that they have the opportunity to rob the people.

Brothers and sisters, these great people have kept the selfishness of themselves and their families above the national security but the nominal family of the Congress or the corrupt family of Bihar, their property is today in hundreds, thousands and crores of rupees. After all, where did these money come from, where did these money come from? If the poor were cared for anything, if there were any care of the country, then shaking hands before corruption could take place. Sister-in-law, the poor have only one rata-rataaya word on their speech. These people have always been addicted to their praise, their applause, listening to it. All the guards of the courtiers keep increasing their pride by praising them day and night. Now the walls around them are so high that they do not see the pain of the poor. Problems of the poor, what is the problem of the poor, These people have forgotten After grabbing hundreds of acres of land, these people have now completely cut off the land. Their eyes still open for the search of stolen goods, as soon as they get a chance they grab that goods.

Brothers and sisters, you assess what Bihar has trusted for years, but what did they give to Bihar without defamation? These people have betrayed you. Friends, in the name of the caste, these people did not find any worthy person to run the party with that caste of politics, everything in the family itself. Is the ability to handle the party in such a big party and not in anybody? Brothers and sisters, the caste and society which made them the bosses of billions of trillions. The car, the bungalow, the post-prestige gave everything, along with them these people have cheated with their society. They did not give anything to the country, gave nothing to Bihar, leave it, did not give anything to its caste. Not only this, he also caught the wrong way in which he was a good, promising young man in the caste to keep control over other people of his caste, On the way to Dabangai. And by misleading the name of the people of the youth, keeping their guns on their shoulders, they made their own society hostage. But brother-in-law, the country is changing, Bihar is changing. These people, filled with egoism, feel that the voters of Bihar in the 21st century are not going to come in their 20th century Jhansi, they have understood now. These people do not understand this when it comes to the country, then every person is the first Indian, later something else happens.

 

Friends, the development of every section of the country, every community, every region is essential for us. This is the reason that for the first time in the history of freedom, the poor youth of the general category also got a ten per cent reservation. Not only this, the NDA government has also given the constitutional status to the OBC Commission in spite of all the obstacles of Mahamalavata. Brothers and sisters, this is the integrity and honesty of the NDA governments, due to which the 21st century youth is convinced. When he looks like a road, electricity seems to be coming, the work of the metro seems to be done, if the rail is seen electrified, then he sees the development. Now AIIMS medical college, health and wellness center, then there is development experience.

Sathiyo, Bihar has always been the land of education and talent, IAS, IPS and other officers of the civil service are playing a very important role in furthering the country. The example of Digital India Campaign is the example of the villages and villages of Bihar, how we are providing technology to poor and poor to give new height to dreams. Friends, the cheapest internet in the world is in India today due to policies of the BJP-NDA government. The cheapest internet in the world and cheap smartphones in India have helped the young people living in the village. When a few days ago I had talked with the video conferencing from the youth of Bihar. I was telling me that due to the cheap Internet, now they are finding it easy to study, Competitive examinations are getting help. Our government has facilitated free Wi-Fi at stations which are the major railway stations. Along with the passengers, if you go to the railway platform at night, the children of the poor parents, the whole platform is filled. They carry out different slabs on their mobile phones, and these children told me that we use the free Wi-Fi at the railway station, now we do not have to go to Delhi's coaching classes. By doing so, we are preparing to give examination of UPSC. Brothers, how a great example is done for the poor, they have not come to understand these days, but this poor mother's son understood it. This empowerment by means of technology in village-village will never be seen in the courtiers sitting in Delhi. The whole platform is filled. They carry out different slabs on their mobile phones, and these children told me that we use the free Wi-Fi at the railway station, now we do not have to go to Delhi's coaching classes. By doing so, we are preparing to give examination of UPSC. Brothers, how a great example is done for the poor, they have not come to understand these days, but this poor mother's son understood it. This empowerment by means of technology in village-village will never be seen in the courtiers sitting in Delhi. The whole platform is filled. They carry out different slabs on their mobile phones, and these children told me that we use the free Wi-Fi at the railway station, now we do not have to go to Delhi's coaching classes. By doing so, we are preparing to give examination of UPSC. Brothers, how a great example is done for the poor, they have not come to understand these days, but this poor mother's son understood it. This empowerment by means of technology in village-village will never be seen in the courtiers sitting in Delhi. Now we do not have to go to coaching classes in Delhi. By studying on this, we are preparing for the examination of UPSC. Brothers, how a great example is done for the poor, they have not come to understand these days, but this poor mother's son understood it. This empowerment by means of technology in village-village will never be seen in the courtiers sitting in Delhi. Now we do not have to go to coaching classes in Delhi. By studying on this, we are preparing for the examination of UPSC. Brothers, how a great example is done for the poor, they have not come to understand these days, but this poor mother's son understood it. This empowerment by means of technology in village-village will never be seen in the courtiers sitting in Delhi.


Brothers and sisters, we have resolved to double the income of farmers by 2022. Anandarata has taken the task of making solar power. If there is a crop of 4,6,8 months in the field, electricity can be generated from there 3-4 months and state governments can buy electricity. The farm will also get food and energy will be provided, the farmer of my country will also become an aadnada and will also become a energy farmer. The farmer's food of my country will give strength to the youth of the country and the energetic farmer of my country will give strength to the country's speed, We are doing this work today. New arrangements are being made from seed to market for this. For the associated small expenses, we have started depositing money directly to the farmers' bank account under the PM Kisan Scheme. Similarly, for the first time, we have arranged the loan arrangement through Kisan Credit Card for those who are our livelihood partners. Those who do politics in the name of animal race in the name of their caste have never had this idea. For so many years he has been in the government that the farmer can also get a credit card, he can also get the money, he never knew this.

NDA government has also given the facility of Kisan credit card to the people of the business of the buyers, fish business. Brothers and sisters, even today, a lot of Bihar goes out to buy fish. Bihar has water but my fishermen were ignored by the Indian government. We want to bring that day that whatever needs of Bihar's fish is not required to bring it to any other state of India. Not only this, but the people of Bihar can also reach fish in India and the states. Brothers and sisters, that's why we have now decided to make a separate department for the fishermen.

 

Brothers and sisters, these great people had put the security of the country on their own. Terrorists continued to spread terror in the country before 2014 but these people kept giving the statement only. But brother-in-law, your janitor refused to bear the wounds from Pakistan, from the wounded. He gave his sons free and killed the terrorists in the house. Did not do that right? Is this the way to enter the house is right or not? Will this terrorism end only then? Sunlight, will the terrorism be done by doing aarti? Brothers and sisters, as they hold the ghosts with the peak and kill them, the same terrorism will have to be killed.

 


Sageo, Yaduvansha is discussed when the Yadav community is very proud about it. I have come from the city of Yaduvansh Dwarka, brothers. I have come from that place where Shri Krishna is at the place of worship, and I have come from that land of Gujarat and when I take the name of Lord Shri Krishna, I remember the great tradition of Yaduvans, then today I would like to say on this earth. Our inspiration is Baal Gopal, who is butter-eater, our inspiration is Kanhaiya, a  bansuri player  , our inspiration is also Lord Krishna who runs the Sudarshan Chakra. Whenever it is necessary, to curb terror, India will take action as Sudarshan Krsna.

Brothers and sisters, for us Charkha Bhadhi Mohan is the path of development and the path of security is the way Sudarshan Giri, that is our path too. We have to grow, we have to protect. Chakradari Mohan showed the path of security and showed the path of development Charkha Bhadhi Mohan. But friends, these Mahmilavati say that the nation's defense is not an issue. Who can take away the lives of innocent people, how can such a problem be a problem of the country? Friends, our track record is to prove the resolution, so the public believes in us. But the track record of maternal welfare is deception and maternity and hence the lesson is being taught to them. Brothers and sisters, from the land of Patna Sahib, I want to remind the country again about the ego of the Congress. You have heard the statements of Congress nominees for 1984 Sikh massacre. Instead of apologizing for that Bhishad massacre, they are saying, It happened What are you saying It happened How much ego is showing.

This is the true reality of the Congress, Namdhas. Your cooperation is necessary for a cooperative, competent, safe and culturally new India, you have to vote in favor of the NDA with full force. Your vote will come in the Modi account. Once again, all of you come in such a large number, bless us, I thank you. Today is my last meeting, I have the opportunity to take my last blessings in 2019. But after this, as Ram Vilasji was saying, accepting the Prime Minister's post again with the spirit of this service, I will once again come among you with the Ganga of development.  

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
990.

14/05/19



Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata

My greetings to all the enthusiastic people of Chandigarh, the wonderful involvement of colleagues from the hills to the ground in Chandigarh. From the farmer to the youth, the confluence of me here is in front. Friends, now I pray to you that I have been living among you in Chandigarh for a long time, no one knows in India as you know me. If I do not see you today, do not worry, you sit, you have seen a lot. You sit comfortably, let these media people do their work. Let the media people do their job

Your zeal in Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Sathio, Youthful and Energetic Chandigarh is telling you that then a Modi government, once again Modi government, once again Modi government. The reason for this is clear that the country is not choosing for a compulsive government, but a strong, strong government. The country is choosing India First instead of Family First. Country is choosing development instead of dynasty. After the country's terrorist attacks, the people who are lunatic are not able to enter the house and try to kill the killers.

Brothers and sisters, in 2014, the mandate given by the whole of India including Chandigarh, which you ordered to the Prime Minister, has not been able to tolerate the Congress and its mahamilabhati partner till today. In the last five years, he has tried to humiliate every decision and every plan. When I announced Swachh Bharat Abhiyan from Red Fort, all these mahamaliwati stood. Hey, what's the matter of the talk of toilet on Red Fort? Make fun of, raising the question of nature, such questions have shocked me like after one after another. When I save my daughter, teach her daughter, talk about her and even tried to denigrate her to these people. When I talked about Make in India and Start Up India, these people have also lost their hands behind them. Even when I started the campaign of Digital India, they questioned my thinking. Companions, You must remember that this is the gang of Congress and its royal court, which used to say that the people of India are illiterate. These people used to say that there is no bank in India. How is digital transaction in such a way? But despite all of his plans and questions, we kept up. Today India has a very large network in the form of a credit card and beam app.

India today is a huge digital destination. And in the honor of our RS card, today in Singapore, you can also use India's RIS card. This way we are expanding. On the other hand post office across the country is now being made a banking service provider through the India Post Payment Bank, India Post Payment Bank. Now Postman has started delivering the home of banking service in village village by taking smart phones and other gadgets. Not only that, we have created a digital trilogy. Jam JAM i.e J Jan Dhan Bank Account, A to Aadhar Card, and M to Your Mobile Phone With the trick of JAM Jam, we have ensured that the benefits of government schemes are available to all beneficiaries only. Imagine your friends, our government, Such eight crore fake names have been removed from the papers. These eight crore people who went to the government's facilities in their names. A daughter who was not born would take a pension in government offices as a widow. He was not born, he used to benefit in the form of Divyaang. Neither is the father, nor the mother, nor the child, he has also been admitted to the college also taking scholarships. We all finished this game.

Eight million friends, imagine, eight million were people on paper only. We removed this. These eight million people were being robbed of ration, pension, scholarship and everything in the name of the poor. Let me tell you from Chandigarh, just imagine the total population of Chandigarh, and compare it to 8 crore what is it? How many Chandigarh will be there, then these eight crore fake names will come out. You will have an idea of ??how big this figure is. And this work which I have come to today in this Jan Lok Sabha, the young man who was born in the 21st Century, who is going to cast votes for the first time in the Lok Sabha. I tell them how big the brain will be to figure out how big the figure will be. By comparing eight million fake names of Chandigarh to total populations, a large number of fake beneficiaries were being paid money to the honesty of tax payers in India every year.

|
 You guys, now you tell me, you tell me when the shops of so many middlemen were closed. Your love is so bouncing. You can not even stop it. Friends, cooked love on my head eyes Friends, you think that the middlemen who used to be eight million fake names. Income days were eaten sour cream. Used to be fun The shops were closed by all these shops. You tell me these middlemen will try to ruin Modi or will not? Will not do that? Will not you make dirty accusations against Modi? Will not lie against Modi? Who will protect Modi? Who will protect Modi? Brothers and sisters, I believe hundreds of millions of people are standing as a watchman to protect the janitor. Friends, our DBT because we have implemented a very large amount of DBT scheme from the base and bank account mobile scheme. Direct Benefit Transfer, Bharti Janata Party government's DBT is Direct Benefit Transfer, and Congress is also DBT of its maternal grandmothers but their DBT is Direct Intermediaries Transfer. Brothers, I'm trying to bring Transparency through technology. By making new laws, ending the old law and trying to remove the shortcomings in the system. And the same thing is knocking them down. How can a tea tea tea work on 21st century Next Generation Infrastructure? This is irritated by this. I am trying to eliminate the shortcomings in the system by abolishing the old law. And the same thing is knocking them down. How can a tea tea tea work on 21st century Next Generation Infrastructure? This is irritated by this. I am trying to eliminate the shortcomings in the system by abolishing the old law. And the same thing is knocking them down. How can a tea tea tea work on 21st century Next Generation Infrastructure? This is irritated by this.

Modi International Solar Alliance today has earned a name in India all over the world. The world's head quarter is made in India. The International Solar Alliance and our mantra is Van Sun One Sun, One Sun One World One Grid How can this tea be talked of about this vision? These things are irritating to them. How can Modi come to realize the dream of One Nation One Tax? It is bothering them. How can Modi apply Mobility Card i.e. One Nation One Card for the whole country? They have trouble with this. I have done all this, I have trouble with this. Brothers and sisters, remember how they had raised questions about earlier surgical strikes and then air strikes, surgical strikes and air strikes. Modi has adopted the policy of terrorists entering and killing They did not understand this. You tell me Chandigarh my dear sisters, This is the right way to knock it out, right? Should not you do this? Should those who patronize terrorism should fix it on the same ground or not? Is this Modi doing right? Is your blessing Will you strengthen me? There is nothing to say on the national security with the comrades, who have run the country fearing Pakistan's fascists. Sameeo, in the same way, we have achieved the ability to strike in space, have questioned him. We had this capability for decades, but the feet of Congress in the international pressure shivered. Questioned him on. We had this capability for decades, but the feet of Congress in the international pressure shivered. Questioned him on. We had this capability for decades, but the feet of Congress in the international pressure shivered. 

|
Brothers, today, when there is space control from mobile to missile, do not we have any obligation to protect our satellites, to develop the capacity of the guard in space. Sister-in-law, how they have protected the country, remember this too, brother, your love has approved me brother, I heard your Let's talk further, raise the matter further, if you allow, then you will increase. I once again say that I love so much love of Chandigarh on my eyes. I thank you. Election is going on or not? Running with Anan-Ban-Shan, is not it? Did the IPL happen in the country? When the election was going on, did Chandi Mata's Navaratri walk, did she not? Chandi Mata's Navaratri celebrated or not celebrated? When the election was going on, the IPL was going on, Navaratri was running. Ramanavami's fair came? Ramnavami forbidden or not? Hanuman Jubilee celebrated or not? Did not celebrate Easter celebrated? Are not celebrating Ramzan right now or not. Everything is going on, there is no blockage. Not only that, there was a sudden ruckus between so many things and a huge cyclone came to our Easter party. We also took care of that and the whole world has cheered the work of India that Cyclone has done. Now the people of Chandigarh have been educated. There are three three governments here. I just want to ask why so much time can be done together? And you saw we did not show tax then why did not it happen before? Friends, people are there, the bureaucracy is right there, the officers are there, The office is right there too But why not before? Why is it happening now? Why is everything happening today? Why is everything happening together? What is the reason ? What is the reason ? What is the reason ? Hey Chandigarh people, your answer is wrong. I am among you Chandigarh residents and I give you wrong answers. Your answer is wrong. It is not happening because of Modi. All this is happening because of one vote. This is the power of your vote. It is the strength of your vote that has given India a strong government. And the strong government has the power to handle so many things together Brothers

Brothers and sisters, it is important for you to know what the Congress is thinking. In the case of 1984 Sikh riots due to this thought of Congress, all the victims have not been given justice. When asked about justice, then it is said in the ego that it happened? Their ego speaks, so happens. It happened It happened Thousands of Sikhs were thrown out of the house in Sethio, Delhi. But the Congress is saying it happened. It happened It happened Someone's father was tormented by someone's brother by throwing a tire in his neck, but the Congress was saying it happened. Sameeo, when the nominee, the closest person to the nomad family, When the eldest ruler of the Namdar family says about the 1984 riots, then you can understand that whose speech he is speaking. I claim to say that if the elections were not held in Punjab today then the nominee would not even say that to a teacher. One word does not pretend to speak. Remember, when there were elections in Gujarat, the people who were very important ministers in their government and their government, they spoke on that day that Modi is dishonorable, lowly. Someone said that this is going to be of low caste and when a storm in Gujarat came up, they did a drama, took them out of the party, made a show and took them back again after a few days and again joined them again. As soon as the enthusiasm of elections in Punjab will be complete then he will come out with his Guru embracing. Brothers and sisters, in Gujarat who gave abusive language, Used extremely bad words for me. They again spoke again yesterday, the thing that was said at that time. But the Congress had done the drama then took it back again. But what he did was wrong, it was not Congress's thinking. This is the result of the same. Not only that, now he has started saying that he was not wrong in what he abused. Sageo, Namdar's family ruled with the same arrogance for decades with his colleagues. When there were millions of crores of scams, what was the Congress thinking? Will you answer my question? Will all give up? Will give full strength? Let me ask you one more thing to remember Chandigarh and bring home and home. When there were millions of crores of scams the Congress thought it was then. Speaking with full force, then it happened. When the relative of Railway Minister, when the Minister of Corruption in the Relief of the Minister of Relief was thinking Congress had happened, it happened, It happened When the plans took decades to complete, the Congress thought it was, it happened. One reason why forest rank was not applicable to forest rank were our military colleagues. The Congress thought it was then. It happened When the dream of the house was broken by the hand of the poor due to black money

The Congress thought it was then. It happened It happened When small rooms were running 400, 500 cell companies. Hundreds of thousands of crores of rupees were transmitted from them. The Congress thought it was then. It happened, it happened. When the middle class's waist was breaking down dearness, the cost of the kitchen was rising wildly, the Congress thought it was. It happened It happened Sathio, the Congress nominee had said that his nominees used to call him and spread him in the world with his court game. Congress nominee had said that the Congress is thinking that now the master of Namdhari has told that the Congress thinks that it has happened. It happened Brothers and sisters, there are gurus at the name of Namdhari who also insulted the middle class. He has said that the middle class is selfish. He is the master of the Congress's dhoksala letter, who says that he will pay tax on the middle class. Companions, The Congress has always insulted the middle class and the honest tax payers. Whilst our government has given respect to the middle class. For the first time in history, income up to five lakh rupees has been reduced to the income tax process. Apart from this, tax rebate has also been increased in the purchase of your home. Affordable housing schemes have also been brought for the first time in the middle class. Apart from this, our government has given several concessions in tax for senior citizens. Neem plants have also been made cheap by 70 to 80 percent. Taxes have given many concessions. Neem plants have also been made cheap by 70 to 80 percent. Taxes have given many concessions. Neem plants have also been made cheap by 70 to 80 percent.

We are continuously working to ensure the brothers are sisters, Chandigarh is of living and is of diving business. You will be happy to Chandigarh, because I have been in Chandigarh. I know that the connection of electricity to every house here is mostly gas stove in most homes. Despite this, lakhs of liters of kerosene would be inundated by Chandigarh on behalf of the Indian Government. There was no buyer of subsidy here, there were few selected family members who needed kerosene. But millions of liters of kerosene used to come, I checked and used kerosene to sell the environment here in black in auto rickshaw, and was sold in black in place. We said the survey, the houses which do not have a gas stove, take them to the gas stove, once the gas stove in everyone's home comes, There will be electricity connection And you will be happy today we have been able to make Chandigarh a fully free kerosene free brother. You also think that how many looters should have gone and those whose earnings have been closed will also spend the money to contest the elections in Chandigarh. You also know this. But brothers and sisters, should I work for your well-being or not? Should not work for the betterment of the country or not? Should not the youth of our country should work for the bright future? Should it be abused for him or not? Even if it is said to be unconditionally or should not it should be done? Apart from this, work to make the sewer treatment, transport system, modernization of the airport here. We are working in every field today. Companions, In New India and for New India, we have to defeat the mananitity of humiliation and ego. And make the country safe and prosperous. And for that, every vote should fall on the lotus mark. Every vote on the lotus will go to Modi's account. Brothers and sisters, you came in such a large number and blessed us all. Come here also as a black party, I am grateful to him, and I express my gratitude for blessing all of us, but I urge that why not be too hot, Chandigarh has voted for its old voting Will break all records? Tell me by turning on your mobile phone flash? Will break all records? Turn on the mobile phone's flash and see, the camera is no longer recording you? well done... Will vote more and more? Will vote more and more? Go home? Meet the voters? Press the lotus button? Will make the Bharatiya Janata Party victorious? Will make a strong government in Delhi? Will you work with full force? Do not sit till 19th? Brothers and sisters, thank you very much, speak loudly-

Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
989.

14/05/19



The blessings of Kailashapati ji also got me in the organization's work and he was also the governor of Gujarat due to his reason. I will always be grateful for his guidance for the development of Gujarat.

Friends, this is the result of your enthusiasm and support that after six phases, the condition of the opposition parties is dead and the anger of their leaders is on the seventh heaven. That is why this compaction of abusing Modi has got bigger. Now when I was coming, Sushil ji's speech was being heard, he was telling all the lists, how many such abusers brought it out.

Friends, your love, your blessing, your enthusiasm, your passion, all these things on my head eyes Now allow you, now allow you, then I start speaking, what should I say? Can I tell you my point? Your enthusiasm, your love, this is my strength, but friends who have called me for work, even they will have to do it too. So start talking, your love will remain, this passion, enthusiasm, 19 will also run?

|
Brothers and sisters, they can not win, they are only hurting their mind by scolding them. Friends, they were in the center of the center for the forced and weak Khichadi government. Thinking that the weak government would come, then they would get a license to blacklist the government by plucking the government. But your janitor has turned his head on. The results of May 23 after 10 days are fixed, what is the result, what is the result? Once again ... Modi government, once again ... Modi government The outcome is fixed, but remember one thing, in Bihar, in entire India, I want to say for all those who are still in the election. Victory is certain but we remember that in our childhood we have been taught that the drop of the pot is filled with a drop-drop, the pot is filled with a drop-drop. So you have to leave home on 19th May and vote for a strong government in the country and make this victory more grand is our dream. 

|
Friends, this election is not just about deciding which party or coalition will win, but this election will decide how fast India will grow in the coming years. These elections will decide the future of our children in the 21st century. But you tell me, do you ever talk about the development of India with these mangers? Do they talk about the development of India? Do you discuss the development of India? What is their agenda of India's development? These people know only and only to make their own interests, not the poor. These people have understood that some castes are their slaves, as if they would say that people of that caste will do the same. These people are saying that when it comes to the country, then we all are Indians first and there are some others later.

Brothers and sisters, these are people who have voted for the poor for decades, achieved big posts, but when the turn of work came, first they did the work of forgetting the poor. These people also came out of poverty, but these people have now built thousands of crores of property. How much money has been started in politics since then has become the owner of billions of trillions. Brothers and sisters, these people have robbed you, made large bungalows for themselves, bought millions of carts. While your servant is the longest Chief Minister of Gujarat and has been the prime minister for five years, but for a moment, neither I nor I have lived for myself nor have I spent my time for my relatives. For me, you are my family. 130 crore Hindustani, this is my family, I won for them, I will live for them.  

|
Friends, this power of honesty, the life of poverty gave me the strength that I could do so much for the poor. Our government, the village and the poor are at the center of every plan of our government. After independence, our first such government that has thought so much about villages, has done so much work. We are working on the goal of reaching the road to every village of the country. We have reduced their suffering by making crores of toilets for the mothers and sisters living in the village. We have given free gas connections to the poor sisters living in the village. Every poor living in the village has a permanent roof, but our government is working on this. These people love you so much and they become upset. Everyone living in the village has their own bank account, We have tried this through Jan Dhan Yojana. So far the work of changing the post-offices into the bank is being carried out to every village. Keeping the children in remote and remote areas living in the village, we are running the Mission Rainbow.

Friends, suffering for the last few decades without any treatment due to lack of money. They were sold for treatment at home, but these mahilavati gave you false slogans. Your servant understood your concern for treatment and this is why today Ayushman India is in front of you. Free treatment of poor from poor to poor hospital has been possible today. Brothers and sisters, in the last five years, the BJP NDA government has never done so much for the poor, so much so that when the poor Modi, Modi, blesses Modi, then his mercury reaches the seventh heaven.
Brothers and sisters, Congress or RJD, it is a mistake in their thinking. They can not understand the 21st century India They want Bihar to keep the country in the dark. Among his efforts, the NDA's effort is to illuminate the house. Just a few days ago, I had the opportunity to get the foundation of a large power plant through video conferencing in Buxar.

Friends, these works of development can happen only when the country is safe, but these great people are worried about the security of the country or they have no policy. That is why before 2014, the entire country continued to suffer the destruction of terror.

Friends, the NDA government gave us open disbursements to its agencies, their friends. Due to this, cleanliness is happening in the country even today and cleanliness is also being done across the border. This is a new India, it kills the terrorists and enters the house. Should not kill or kill? Should not you do that with courage? Should not do that with full force? Should terrorism end this country or not? Should the world that killed innocent people should end or not?

Friends, on one hand, we are engaged in cleaning campaign against terrorists and Naxals, while on the other side, the maternal grandfather is engaged in saving them. These people want to give an open license to those who wish to disintegrate India, stone makers, their supporters, supporters of Maoists. These great march came out to put the integrity and security of the country at stake. To stop them, we all have the duty.

Friends, everyone's development is our mantra and the security of all-respect to all is our love. Moving on the same goal, the NDA has worked for the development of every section, every region. Reservation of 10% of the poor families of the general category without any tampering with the interests of any class has resulted in this thinking.
Giving constitutional status to the OBC Commission is also to strengthen social justice. Brothers and sisters have started depositing money directly into the bank account of farmers, and now on May 23, when the result of the election will come again ... Modi government, once again ... Modi government, once again when Modi If the government is formed then the scheme will also be made to the farmers, the farm laborer, the small shopkeeper, to get pension for such people every month. Similarly, we will also get the National Merchant Commission for the merchants and the loan of up to Rs 50 lakh without guaranteed loans, to the shopkeepers up to Rs 50 lakh without guaranteed debt, this facility will also be the start of the process once Modi becomes the government. Approval has also been granted for mega food parks here. Employment through this park will also be created here and the farmers will get the fair price for their produce.

|
Friends, in this area, the steps of Lord Rama and Mata Sita have fallen. We have also taken this vital legacy of faith to connect with the employment of youth. Buxar has been connected with the Ramayana circuit. Under this, facilities required for tourists and pilgrims are being constructed and similarly efforts are made to make Ganga Aarti more divine on Mahadeo Ghat as Divine.
This visit to build a grand, sublime and divine India should be empowered, hence your one vote for the NDA should fall. Whatever the vote on the lotus flower or on the mark or on the marks of the bungalow, the votes will go straight to Modi's account. Will you strengthen your booth, strengthen your booth? Go home, meet voters, explain to voting? Will make more and more votes, vote in such a heat, will work hard? Will vote in peace, feed the lotus, run the arrows, build the bungalow? Will make the country great, will strengthen the country? Brothers, your vote to make India strong, everyone's vote is very important.

Speak with me to 
Bharat Mata's ... Jai 
Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay 
Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai.



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
988.

14/05/19


Baniya and Salempur's Ruwa Saba bowing bani

Amar Shahid Mangal Pandey Ji, Sher-e-Ballia Chittu Pandey ji, worshiping Veer Kunwar Singh ji I bow to Late Chandrasekhar ji who is well-respected by the title of young Turk , the son of this earth . I pay tribute on my behalf. There are also many companions from Salempur and other parts of Purvanchal. Thank you very much, before you came in the month of May. Then the revolutionary scheme started with this earth to create a confidence in revolutionary change in the lives of poor sisters . Prime Minister Ujjwala planToday, more than 70 million poor sisters of the country have access to free gas connections in the kitchen. Once upon a time, the rebel Balia has become a partner to liberate Hindustan from slavery. Now Balia is a partner in the emancipation of the poor sisters of the country. This is the reason that today you have got this support from the poor mothers and sisters in the whole country.

Friends, this is the result of this support that the alliance with Mamata is SP, BSP, Congress, all of them have assembled in one work. There is no such day when Modi does not get abused by his mouth. After the elections of these 6 phases, the atmosphere is disturbed. The frustration of defeat is clearly visible. Brothers and sisters, I consider their abuse as gifts. They will not have to answer their slander to Modi. These people, Janardan, are going to answer all the abuse of the people of entire India by pressing the button on the lotus marks. I am standing in the honor of our daughters and sisters. I stand to increase the confidence of the poor. I am the person standing in the last line of society who is strongI am ready to do. Brothers and sisters, in this desperation, these great people are now asking, what is the caste of Modi? Friends, these buo-babuas together have been the CM of Gujarat for a long time, not being the Chief Minister. I have fought many elections and also fought. But never resorted to his caste. Even though I am born, I have been in a very backward caste, but my goal is to make our Hindustan world proud. Brothers and sisters, Yogi Ji was telling me that there is no caste in my mind, there is no caste in my mind. Therefore, not even by asking the caste, the gas stoveEven the caste did not ask it, the toilet was not given by asking the caste, and therefore the brother is not demanding votes in the name of caste. Not in the name of the caste, I do not take the name of the caste. I have to live for my country, have to do something for the country, so we also demand votes for the country.

Brothers and sisters, this is the voice of my heart, this is the voice of my heart that I want to tell you today in Ballia. Jaya Prakash Narayan's shadow, I want to say from that land. Sisters, I do not want your children to be forced to live a long life like you. I do not want your children to inherit backwardness. I do not want your children to inherit heritage. I have to change this miserable situation that is going on in generation to generation and therefore I want your blessings. Sister-in-law, you must be wondering how can Modi be able to do this work. How to do such a big dream, how many Modi can not be reached by so many Prime Ministers? Brothers, I can do this because I came out of your midst. I pay poverty to backwardness. I have suffered the pain that you are suffering today with myself. I am my backwardness, I do not want to eliminate my poverty, I have won for you. I struggle for you, so I believe that we will succeed in changing this situation. Brothers and sisters, what kind of politics these great people have, how they have deceived you in the name of power, they are looted. You know it well. These people have built bungalows for themselves and their relatives in the name of caste politics, have built palaces. They have restored the name of Naami and Anonymous property. The agencies that have been fully accounted for nowadays. This is the reason that the one who has ever been drinking water for one another, is forced to commit adultery, and today he is forced to molest himself. Yesterday when I reached Delhi in late night, watching television was that the SP-BSP workers were bursting with each other. Were giving abuses The clothes were tearing. The whole country has seen, the elections are still left and the accounts have begun to pay. Brothers and sisters, Like the rebellion against Balia, Modi also fought against poverty, has become rebellious against poverty. My only race, and my caste is poverty, and that's why I rebelled against poverty.

|
Brothers and sisters, I have seen my mother fighting with her in the kitchen as a child. Because of lack of hospitality, I have seen the suffering of women in the house and surrounding neighborhood. Due to the rooftop terrace in the rain, people watched the night-waking families. In the absence of money, poor farming has been seen to be sold. How difficult is education in kerosene oil in Deborah? I know. This was the experience that has inspired me to rebel against poverty. Friends, this poverty gave me lessons from life, the motivation for removing this poverty has shaped our government's plans. With our inspiration today, there are a lot of work being done for the sisters to give gas connections, free connections to the electricity and toilets. With this motivation we have our own strong house by every poor of 2022, It is Modi who is working for this and it is a janitor. By 2022, everyone is breathing only by giving a permanent home. With this motivation, the poor from poor and poor have been given free treatment upto five lakh rupees. Sister-in-law, it is a practice that has come out of the life of poverty, that money is now being deposited directly into small farmers' accounts.

After 23rd May every farmer's family will get this help. Not only this, small farmer farm laborers and small shopkeepers will get pension for every month after the age of 60, they will also make this watchman. With the motivation of poverty, the poor people of general category were given 10 percent reservation for the poor. The OBC Commission has been given constitutional status. Friends, for nearly two decades I have been working as a CM and a PM. I challenge these maternal ancestors open, and this is my open challenge. Instead of being cheated, accept this challenge and come to the ground instead of abusing me. I challenge these mahamilatis openly. Show these people that I have deposited an anonymous property? Have a form house made? A shopping complexWhat is made? What are the money deposited in foreign banks? Have you purchased any property abroad? What has the millions of crores of carts taken by Modi? What has the crores of bungalis made by Modi? Brothers and sisters, neither have I ever dreamed of wealth, nor have I ever committed any sin to rob money of the poor.

The welfare of the poor and respect for the motherland is our protection from our lives. This is the reason that all the heirs of Pakistan and its terrorists have become windy today. The terrorists who apparently used to show arms in Pakistan are praying for the removal of Modi by hiding under the ground. Sometimes they look at the forests, sometimes the sky is bitten by the sea. Sleep is gone. They seem to know when when they will come to India's dream Friends, with your blessings, I have kept open the sons of the country openly. Therefore, first a surgical strike occurred and then the air strikes. Today, we have taken the fight against terrorism across the border. But fellows, did you hear the split of the SP, the BSP, and the Congress in this election, on terror or even at the national level? They only question the bravery of the sons and believe in the impotent sages of Pakistan. Companions, Those who can not control the street gangsters, will put a stop to terrorism. Without tackling a strong and appealing plea in Delhi to deal with the terrorism which is troubling the whole world, without taking the vote bank politics without courage, the government should take decisions for the country.

Brothers and sisters, everyone's development is our mantra, and everyone's safety and respect for everyone is our love. Following this, we have given special attention to the development of Purvanchal and Eastern India. Particularly empowering connectivity . Today the movement of trains has increased. Rail lines have been electrified. The journey of Ballia to Varanasi has been easy. When connectivity is good then the potential for industries increases. Friends, our government has also laid a lot of emphasis on mobile connectivity . Mobile phones have reached home today today. Because of which Bhojpuri song music and cinemaHas also benefited greatly. The previous government was busy in the 2G scam and we have delivered 4G from poor to poor. The mobile phone that you have in hand is so cheap in the make in India. Not only this, due to the policies of the Hamari government today, internet is also the cheapest in the world. Saathio, honor of the poor, it is necessary to make the life easier and to feed the lotus again to protect Mother Bharati. Every vote, your brother-in-law, when you press the button on the lotus marks then there will be a strong government in Delhi. And the strong government will work for strong Hindustan. Each of your votes which will be pressed on the lotus mark, the votes will go straight to Modi's account. I express my gratitude to you in such a large number to bless us. And make the fists of both hands up and speak with full force

Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata

Thanks a lot  



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
987.

13/05/19



I bow to the holy land of Damdama Sahib, coming to the gurus I always have a pleasant experience. Whatever time I have spent in Punjab with Sardar Prakash Singh Badal and other senior colleagues, he has taught me a lot.

Friends, the strong government you created five years ago is in front of you. Today, India's credibility is on new highlights in the whole world. My Punjabi brothers and sisters all over the world are also witness to this, to make India a great force in the 21st century, once again the country needs a strong government. This is the reason that the country has voted in favor of the NDA in six phases. Brothers, Congress is struggling to get 50 seats all over the country because Congress has a leader confucius and thinking is defused, the ego is above the peak. Rajiv Gandhi ji's special advisor who created the policies of Congress and presently the master of Namdhari, what he said about the 84 riots, has a reaction in the whole country, you are also seeing this.

Sathyo, Namdar's special come from America, his master has said that what happened in 84 is that happened. It reflects the Congress' thinking, shows the ego of the Congress. Sathiyo, today I want to ask the Congress from Bathinda on behalf of the whole Punjab, how long will it continue to sprinkle salt on our wounds. Brothers and sisters, I was watching that Namdhari has told his master that whatever the master said, he should be ashamed of him. I want to ask, what are you pretending to scold for the guru? What is it that, in the discussions of the Namdari family in the heart of the Congress, that Nomadar's guru has opened this rule publicly, you are scolding him for what? Is Nandir's guru being reprimanded for telling the story of the house? Hey, you should come to shame. The 1984 riots are going on for 35 years today, Due to the acts of Congress, till today, the riot victims should not get the justice they should get. In the name of justice, Congress Committee was formed, made commissions. Not only did such a serious matter roam around, it was not only that, the Congress also made a minister in the Center for the serious allegations; the serious allegations were given to the big responsibilities of the elections, the in-charge of Punjab was made. When it was criticized, there was tremendous resentment in Punjab and the Congress's naiya began to drown and then he drew the drama to remove him from the charge of Punjab. But then what did you do? Ignored all objections, by insulting the feelings of Punjab, you made the same person the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh. Named Shame You Should Come The Congress also made a minister in the Center for serious allegations, the serious allegations were given to the big responsibilities of the elections, in-charge of Punjab was made. When it was criticized, there was tremendous resentment in Punjab and the Congress's naiya began to drown and then he drew the drama to remove him from the charge of Punjab. But then what did you do? Ignored all objections, by insulting the feelings of Punjab, you made the same person the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh. Named Shame You Should Come The Congress also made a minister in the Center for serious allegations, the serious allegations were given to the big responsibilities of the elections, in-charge of Punjab was made. When it was criticized, there was tremendous resentment in Punjab and the Congress's naiya began to drown and then he drew the drama to remove him from the charge of Punjab. But then what did you do? Ignored all objections, by insulting the feelings of Punjab, you made the same person the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh. Named Shame You Should Come

Brothers and sisters, I want to remind the people of the country that if they are scolding their courtiers, they are reminded of their shame, then what does this mean, I say the example. One year ago, there was an election in Gujarat, at the time of elections, the people of their families and their advisors are also there and there are ministers in the central government too. In the days of Gujarat elections, he slandered me, said me lowly and the heat of the people became hot in Gujarat. When the mercury became hot in Gujarat then all the Congress started running away, save-save-save, to save the Congress, they did the drama for the show, removed them from the party, and then what happened, after some time the closest person With full respect, with complete shamelessness in the party again. And so I will say again, Named Shame should come to you, what does it mean to happen?

|
Thousands of people were killed, burnt alive, families were destroyed, and shamelessly speaking, it happened. Whatever happened in 1984, he completely wiped humanity. Your janitor did this promise of justice to you. By standing with Badal Saheb in 2014, I promised you that I will fight the fight for your justice. With the blessings of Badal Saheb, today I can say with satisfaction that one has been sent to the gallows of hanging and others have been given life imprisonment and those who have survived will not be able to stay out for a long time.

Brothers and sisters, there is another historic mistake of Congress, which is now being done to improve. In 1947, the Congress split, but the center of our faith, Kartar Singh Sahib, was allowed to go to Pakistan in a few kilometers distance. This is a sign of insensitivity towards our faith. Today, we are working to make a caridor here, even then Congress is singing songs of Pakistan, praising Pakistan.

Brothers and sisters, thousands of lakhs of Sufi people in Punjab are standing naxalite on the outskirts, but the Congress does not even care about our soldiers. In the ego of the happened, the Congress has made its manifesto, its own defaulter. It has been said that our soldiers who keep their lives alive, they get special rights in the areas where they have violence, they will remove them. Congress wants the terrorists and the stone-bearers of terrorists to get a license to swing their jawans. 
Brothers and sisters, Congress's fixed policies have put our soldiers in danger and also put the country's security in danger. But today Pakistan has realized the breath of new India. Our heroes have been killed in the house and the whole of India is proud.

|
Brothers and Sisters, along with the soldiers, they have cheated farmers like this, once in ten years, they scold debt waivers and scam even in it. Here in Punjab, Congress had talked about debt waiver from farmers, what is the truth of it, that one farmer in Punjab knows. What was the need to make such a shit and the result of your thug, the Punjab which kept Hindustan alive, which is full of Punjab's Hindustan stomach, the farmer of that Punjab is forced to commit suicide, it can not be a big painful thing You did this and it has hurt him. He has got angry, he is cheated with him. And Captain Sahib, the man of Punjab can forgive your mistake, your cheat will never forgive.

Brothers and sisters, on one side there are false promises of Congress, on the other hand, we are honest efforts. We have taken the resolution, to double the income of the farmer till 2022. We are working from seed to market for this. MSP of about two dozen crops, including cotton, has been fixed one and a half times. At the same time, you are well aware of Harsimrat's efforts on food processing. Now the money directly deposited in the farmer's account is deposited by the NDA government. On May 23, when the Modi government comes once again, the scope of this scheme will be increased. This help will be given to every farmer in Punjab.

Our efforts are also to make full use of the water of our rivers, including Sutlej-Yamuna, for the farmers, to get water. Because of the causes of the Congress, our water of our rights was going to Pakistan for so many years, we have started the work to stop it.

Brothers and sisters, in view of the challenges related to health in this area, facilities like AIIMS have been given here. Not only this, under the Ayushman scheme, free treatment of poor families is possible up to five lakhs rupees. Work is also being done to improve the connectivity between brothers, sisters, Shri Akal Takht, Damdama Sahib, Kesgarh Sahib, Patna Sahib and Hajur Sahib. A special flight is also being run from Nanded to Amritsar.

Friends, our faith, our tradition, our country's head high, for this we need a strong government at the center. Brothers and sisters, how much controversy was the GST-anchor, it is we who made the anchor out of GST. I will say to the first time voters of Punjab, especially to our young people, your vote in this election is very historic, of importance. Your vote will decide the role of India in 21st Century. Remember, your every vote on the scales of scales will go to Modi's account. Once again, I express my gratitude to all the friends of Badal Saheb, Punjab. Speak with me with all the strength ...

Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai, thank you very much.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
986.

13/05/19


Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

How are you all ? OK ? Remember that ever forgot ?  

Solan , Shimla , Sirmaur and all the people who have come here from here are very much from my heart. Many of you congratulations on the land of Mother Shulini Today's meeting is a very unique one, I see the 6- storey meeting. The meeting is being held on different floors. Your wonderful love , this is your faith, Himachal has given me so much love. I have made myself and come among my dear ones, then I take new energy and Solan is one way, when I used to work here, I had to come here many times. And here on freight road I often used to stroll along with some older colleagues. And one was probably red-hot and used to sell chana, then we used to eat granite red gram. Now I do not know if he is today , he is his ,And our partner of our Solan was my program and Manohar Lal Ji did not have to eat gram like this.  

Friends , today Himachal Pradesh is becoming an important center for the identity of new India. The challenge to challenge the challenge is found in the corner and corners of Himachal, the same effort has probably got me in heritage too. Your These affection that witness 23 will come a conclusion by this time in the country on May 23 will result when the May once again ... The government , once again ... Modi government . But I would also say that the drop of the pot is made by drop-drop. 6 stages of an election even on Ban, Shan, who may have been Ckack , the result is you know . Say Survey ,Tell the media everyone has said but still we all have the responsibility that the victory of the Bharatiya Janata Party is to make us more grand and make Divine. And reach one vote for , they are sure to win is our duty in a democracy and that is the beginning , it's going to be great to win again voter, this is our God is the same to him. The expressions 19 to date we should all work is my special requirements. Your vote will help me to form a strong government in every country. I especially from the youth of Himachal who got the chance to cast their votes for the first time in this Lok Sabha election. One of which will put the first vote of the Parliament, most of them they are 21 born in the century and these who will vote for him thisIt is to connect this election with the future of the 21st century itself. Others will vote for a good five years but you will vote for the whole century, because this is the most important period of your life. In this era, your life is going to be created and that life is going to run throughout the whole century. All stops in life, these young people have to live in this century and that's why I would urge such first-time voters, take full advantage of this historic occasion. 21 Will century India's direction , how will developing countries, these 21 young century that will determine our first vote to a voter.  

Brothers and sisters , remember 21 have gone two decades of century. Vajpayee said Congress 2004 in 8 grow at the rate of per cent of India had handed him and he also referred to an economist prime minister. If the Congress had taken the speed at which Atal ji had taken the government during its ten year rule, Atalji was not taking anything in the country, if he kept it, kept it only , then in 10 years, where did the country reach go. But these people were stuck on the half of the country's development rate Atal ji where they were left. Bring 5 percent if 8If the percentage would have been maintained for ten years, then today we have the opportunity to solve many problems in the country. That is why, in their governance, these people had double-digit inflation at double digits ie i.e. around 10 percent. Atal ji left, right there was wasted in ten years and still working hard to renew my work in 2014 , came to work like this, I had come here to fill it. After 5 years of efforts, the growth rate has increased so far and by reducing inflation, we have brought inflation to less than half as compared to earlier.  

Friends, the Congress and its great-great-grandfathers , in the ten years of their rule , avoided every major decision and even took decisions , that is why the country had to suffer loss. Sky from the ground up, these people had no one to be so many scams day , when news of their exploits in the newspapers are not published. Even today Namdharis and their relatives are on bail and this is what is their anger , this is the reason for anger. Who is the tea winner, who is cutting us through the court, we are demanding bail, so their anger has reached the seventh heaven. And brother-in-law , shamelessly it is that everyone who is on bail, is leaving your watchman , your servant in search of new abuses every day from my dictionary, on me.

 

Brothers and sisters ,   this janitor is not going to overtake them. After all, we have also eaten mushrooms of Solan. These nominees are openly saying that Modi's image, these nameservers are openly saying that it is their mission to spoil the image of Modi. His mission will have to deteriorate Modi's image , but Modi's mission is to lift India's image to the highest of the world. Namdhari says that defeating Modi is their mission, but Modi's mission is to win India. They are engaged in defeating Modi, Modi has started to win India.  

Friends , the situation of Congress has become the party of the Vat katua party in the country today. This is not Modi, the people of the Congress themselves say that. There is only one reason for this , their ego , their ego remains on the seventh heaven. They think that whatever the Namdari family is saying is just right. They call for votes in the name of their ancestors , but when their questions are asked questions , they say - it happened , what do they say ? Say what ? Happened then . It happened, this thought made India's defense policy and military policy so vulnerable.

|
Friends , not a single family of Himachal will be like this, whose son , daughter or any relative is not involved in protecting the country. Our candidates are also East Army. What did the Congress do for those who fight for the country ? You will know this by just one example. When Congress was in power , our army asks them bulletproof vest, Congress 6 stalled their demand to year. Our Children terrorist attacks in Maoist attacks, are not killed , yet unfulfilled dreams of life, the beginning of life , 18 -20 put head to the age and homeland , gave sacrifices. But if the Congress is saying , happened then ,So the only answer is that people have died.  

Brothers and Sisters , Because of their own thinking, the Congress and these great people have taken serious steps to make the country self-reliant in defense matters, seriously or did not take any action seriously. In 2014 , you gave me a chance to serve me, after assuming responsibility, I began to understand a lot of things, explored the files and when we searched the files, we discovered that our country imports more than 70 percent of its security from overseas. India was dependent on other countries for the protection of its country. But the Congress was still saying it And why this happens because in it, these defense deals were ATMs for these people, mixing was the game to buy money. That is why he never allowed India to become self-reliant, and no deal is like this and there is no defense deal, at first, on which these people do not face serious charges.

Brothers and sisters , when India was free, at that time India would have surprised you by listening to this, and I have come to the land of Himachal, where every family has a family of heroic sons and valiant mothers, who will inherit the land The small country is protecting such a large country. That is why I am proud of Himachal and after going to the heart of heart, I feel like talking to Himachal. When India was free, at that time India had more than a hundred years of production of defense production. That is, 70 years ago today, according to today, about 200, 250 years, then there were not two in the country, then there were not one two but 18 ordnance factories in the country. On the other hand , in the same period, which made modern science ,In China, there was not a single factory to produce defense at that time. We have 200 services 200 years ago, 18 were industry was not one to China, but today not only self-sufficient in China to protect content , but also its largest exporter in the world exporter. On the contrary , India is the world's largest importer of defense material in the world , it is reversed . India imports so much , we ask , are they , then it is the Congress says to withdraw money from an ATM and ask a question in the country , happened ... happened.

 

Friends , in the last five years, the BJP Government has made every effort to change this situation. Compared to earlier government , defense production has increased by 80 percent during the last five years .

Friends , these mahamilavatti do not respect the honor of our soldiers , the honor and courage of our army. This is called our army chief as a gang of street , the Air Force chief is called a liar. When someone says that it was wrong , then give these answers, it happened. Insulting the army , that is tainted history of failing to protect the country , Congress surgical strike which , air strikes do not talk about it. You tell me, after taking action on the terrorists, what are the terrorists we are doing in the past ? Tell me everybody , even those who came to the sixth floor , did not do it right ?Should not I do that ? Should it die or not die ? How long will this house run by wrapping the tricolor of my army, brothers ? Are you proud ? Is your head high ? Did your sew widen ? It seems like India is breathless, we are not even less , it seemed to be that , this is the strength of the country, friends.  

Friends , when 130 million Hindus work together in one vote, then there are historical works in the country. Brothers and sisters , the world rich from the world has not been able to plan for free treatment of up to five lakh rupees. But today 50 crores in India , it is not small but 50 million poor people will spend the treatment of Ayushman Bharat Yojana every year for five lakh rupees, the watchman will give it and this number is 50 crore, , Canada , the more people it Mexico's total population of these three countries we are giving benefit, brothers. Largest countries of the world are still struggling with digitization ,But the power of mobile , base and public account in India is giving power to the poorest of the poor. Rupee card and BHIM app are being used today in village-village of Himachal.

Comrades , that's not the first time the general category of poor families in freedom history 10 've found to get reservations percent, the janitor is due. And this work also gave 10 percent reservation to the poor of general society , but whoever got SC, ST, OBC done without hurting them , did not sneak anybody, and did not mark names of struggles in society, whatever done love Done from Show did not show , did not show it ? This is an example of how the country's unity is used.

Today the direct help is reaching the bank account of the brothers and sisters , farmers and gardeners. Himachal is in this case in the country's most prominent states and for this I congratulate Jai Ram Ji and his whole team. This is the vegetable market of our Solan, a model of the new India's agricultural trade, and the Solanis are also the officials for the congratulations. Your apple , your tomatoes , mushrooms , capsicum , garlic , peas are a huge market for vegetables, and probably in gourd, there was also ginger . Yes , that time always complain when I hear comes here I e -I have had the opportunity to honor the Mandi here on the name platform. Similarly, the other boards of Himachal are being linked to the e-names so that the intermediaries of the world are closed , locks can be started.

The work of widening of all National Highways including Sethio ,   Shimla, Kalka, Chandigarh, National Highway is currently underway in Himachal. Efforts are being made to lay the trap of roads in villages too fast. This infrastructure is also going to be benefited by farmers and Baghban colleagues. It avoids a lot of time in the movement of trucks. Railway and air connectivity are being strengthened along with brothers and sisters Highway. Shimla has become the first country in the country to join the flight scheme. In order to promote tourism, we have added the Transparent Vista Dome Coach for the first time between Kalka-Shimla. These facilities are very beneficial to tourism sector here. Besides, the currency scheme for tourism sector is also proved to be helpful. Especially in the guest house and home stages, the team is benefiting from this.

 

Friends , today there is a big center for Himachal, Education and Health. All institutes like IIM and AIIMS in Bilaspur in Sirmaur will connect youth with opportunities. Friends , we have to speed up all these developmental activities, once again for the Modi government , once again Modi government but I want more then four times four in Himachal , then four times in Himachal four , then again Once in Himachal ... four in four , then once in Himachal ... four to four , then once Modi government and this once again Modi government ,Once again the Modi government. Each of your votes on the lotus will go straight into Modi's account. Once again, for the love of my loved ones in your own home , that I greet loved ones to bless the loved ones.  

Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

Thanks a lot.




- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -
985.

13/05/19



Bharat Mata's ... Jay, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay, Bharat Mata Ki Jai

Malwa Nimar's soil has always loved me very much. I know that calling people around Ratlam at around 10 o'clock, this is the hardest thing, but I see that even in that raw way, there is a buzz around this place and in front of that building, The forehead is showing itself in the forehead. I am very thankful to your heart for your love for your blessings. Even when I was in Gujarat and in the last five years as a Prime Minister, you have supported this servant by diluting it. I am able to experience this love even today.

|
Coming to the accompaniment of sister, mother Kali and Baba Garh Kailash has always been divine experience. I bow to the land giving birth to great revolutionary Chandrashekhar Azad. With respect to all these great men in my honor, both of you raise your hand and say, 'Bhai Mata Ki ... Jay, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay

Friends, these are our sacraments, these are the sacraments of Ratlam that we start our work from the praise of Maa Bharati but will always remember, the Congress has trouble with the success of Mother India. They are happy to abuse me but India can not say yes to mother Brothers and sisters, will the country run with devotion that will run with patriotism? You must have seen the beginning of the Namdhari slogan only.

|
Brothers and sisters, I give you another example of what the difference between sanskars is. A few days ago, here Saput Lt Dharmendra ji sacrificed his supreme sacrifice while saving his battleship during the fire, I bow to him and his family. But on the other hand the Congress nominated family, what do these people do? These people use the warship for the picnic and when the questions arise, by being shameless, without being fearless, without saying any fear, it happened. These are not three words, it is the ideology of the Congress, the ego, their attitude towards the people of the country. These are not three words, it is symbolizing the ego of people who are roaming in the country with their pockets. They have only one answer on the Bofors gun scam, it happened. They have only one answer on the Submarini scam, it happened. They have only one answer on the chopper scam, what is the answer? It happened 

|
Friends, in the reign of our heroes, they did not get to the bulletproof jacket. In the terrorist attacks, our brave companions used to lose their lives in Naxalite attacks and these people used to say that it happened. They had only one answer to such difficult questions, it happened. All the country has come to know, it has happened. Similarly, the gas tragedy that happened in Bhopal, which is being used to talk about the people who are suffering today, their style remains the same, it has happened.

With the Commonwealth scandal, he put the prestige of the country at stake, but the answer is, it happened. By doing 2G scam, he made telephone services expensive in the country but the answer is, it happened. By robbing coal, they looted the country's property but they have only one answer, it happened. Friends, these mesmerizing people are saying, it happened. But the country is saying, the great people are now very much.

The middle class, which the Congress calls greedy, on whom threatens to increase tax, is saying that the middle class is human, the insult of the people of the middle class, the middle class is very much. Those young people whose rights are looting close to the Congress, the young man is shouting and saying that the great people are brother-nephews, the dynasty is very much. Those poor women, who did not get cooking gas due to discrimination in Congress rule, did not find a permanent home, did not get electricity. That mother is saying that sister is a great woman, racism is very much. The poor who did not get the cheapest humiliation in the Congress rule, they are saying that there is a lot of ridiculous joke with the poor people who are poor. Those people who have lost their husbands in terrorist attacks due to Congress policies, they are saying that the people of the world are terrorism very much.

Brothers and sisters, due to the wrong policies of the Congress nominees, bomb blasts were taking place all over the country, the bombers used to go to Pakistan across the border, but what the Congress did, they kept saying it. Not only this, these people defied a sense of Hindu terrorism. Due to the conspiracy of this Congress to forcibly discredit our great tradition, only the real terrorists continued to keep their blood from the innocent. Friends, this is the reason why they are afraid to talk about terrorism and national security today. You saw the first surgical strike and the air strikes, they raised questions on both. This Congressional thinking has always made a loss to the country. They can think only in the interest of their relatives and their courtiers. In their arrogance they are not afraid to speak these lies or make false promises. You tell me Here these people had promised to forgive the farmers' debt or did not do it. If I tell all of them, I will accept it or else I will accept why. Was promised debt forgiveness, would do in ten days. His nominee had said that Madhya Pradesh had taught counting one to ten and if he did not do it in ten days then the Chief Minister would have said such a thing? Did not say that all this was in the public? People's public life is the form of God, that was said to the public that he had not said that he was cheated or cheated, did not cheat God or cheated. Can you trust this? A family of 55 years of independence has cheated the country like this, do you still want to give them the right to cheat? Do you want to give any condition? Electricity bill will half, it was said? Brothers and sisters, the bill was halfway or the electricity supplied halfway? Ten days would have said His nominee had said that Madhya Pradesh had taught counting one to ten and if he did not do it in ten days then the Chief Minister would have said such a thing? Did not say that all this was in the public? People's public life is the form of God, that was said to the public that he had not said that he was cheated or cheated, did not cheat God or cheated. Can you trust this? A family of 55 years of independence has cheated the country like this, do you still want to give them the right to cheat? Do you want to give any condition? Electricity bill will half, it was said? Brothers and sisters, the bill was halfway or the electricity supplied halfway? Ten days would have said His nominee had said that Madhya Pradesh had taught counting one to ten and if he did not do it in ten days then the Chief Minister would have said such a thing? Did not say that all this was in the public? People's public life is the form of God, that was said to the public that he had not said that he was cheated or cheated, did not cheat God or cheated. Can you trust this? A family of 55 years of independence has cheated the country like this, do you still want to give them the right to cheat? Do you want to give any condition? Electricity bill will half, it was said? Brothers and sisters, the bill was halfway or the electricity supplied halfway? He had told not to say to the public that he had cheated even if he had not cheated or cheated God. Can you trust this? A family of 55 years of independence has cheated the country like this, do you still want to give them the right to cheat? Do you want to give any condition? Electricity bill will half, it was said? Brothers and sisters, the bill was halfway or the electricity supplied halfway? He had told not to say to the public that he had cheated even if he had not cheated or cheated God. Can you trust this? A family of 55 years of independence has cheated the country like this, do you still want to give them the right to cheat? Do you want to give any condition? Electricity bill will half, it was said? Brothers and sisters, the bill was halfway or the electricity supplied halfway?  

|
Brothers and sisters, today the police is reaching the farmers' house, the farmers of the debtor farmers are going to jail. After all, why this is happening, the answer to this question is, the Tughlaq Road election scam. Those posters in Delhi who are nominated by them are posters which you see in Ratlam, Mandsaur, Ujjain, they are goods of that cherry, there is money for corruption, they have money for the Tughlaq Road scam and these money was sent for you. They looted the money that was sent from Delhi to nurture poor tribal children, mothers of mothers. The whole country saw how the sacks filled with notes filled the Congressmen's house.

Sister-in-law, their ego is shown in Bhopal. When the country is celebrating the festival of democracy, it is choosing its representatives, I went to Ahmedabad myself to cast my vote. The country's President-Vice-President was standing in the queue for casting votes and Diggy Raja, he was concerned about democracy, or was concerned about the duty of the citizens, nor was he concerned about the voter's responsibility. How to do them, Hey, run, do not vote, put vote, vote, save me - save me. This unsurpassed parikrama could not save me, now save Bhopal people or else my job will be gone, crying. And therefore do not even consider the need to cast votes, likes and dislikes in democracy, can be dragged from your chief minister, Diggy king is possible that you do not like the candidate there, he is a fight of your house. Hey you had to go inside, you had to come back without pressing the finger but it was enough to do so. You have a fight with them, they have a fight, In this way you opened up You boycotted the vote, what is the quarrel of yours? Why Diggy Raja was so scared and you are not afraid of Zakir Naik, then why do you fear the people of your own area? People of the Congress, the first time voters of the country are watching all the leaders of India closely. On his mobile phone, he searches all the world's news. The young partner who has come out to vote for the development of the country, who is coming out to decide the role of India in the 21st century, is teaching you that it is not necessary to vote. Hey you have done a great sin Diggy King. Today I will urge first time voters from this forum, Those who have been given the right to vote for the first time in the 21st century. He was born either in the late 20th century or in the 21st century, but for the first time in his life he has to vote for the country's election. Madhya Pradesh has got an opportunity to do it, the opportunity to decide the future of the country is getting it for the first time. And people will vote, there will be five years in their mind, but for the first time the voter is to vote for this century, to vote for the century because he has to spend life in this 21st century. His education-initiation, livelier, job-family is going to happen in this century and hence the beginning of the century should be strong, the country should be strong so that the whole century of my first time voter will be good. And therefore, I would urge First Time Voters to vote in greater number to punish this attitude of Congress. He is getting the opportunity to decide the future of the country for the first time. And people will vote, there will be five years in their mind, but for the first time the voter is to vote for this century, to vote for the century because he has to spend life in this 21st century. His education-initiation, livelier, job-family is going to happen in this century and hence the beginning of the century should be strong, the country should be strong so that the whole century of my first time voter will be good. And therefore, I would urge First Time Voters to vote in greater number to punish this attitude of Congress. He is getting the opportunity to decide the future of the country for the first time. And people will vote, there will be five years in their mind, but for the first time the voter is to vote for this century, to vote for the century because he has to spend life in this 21st century. His education-initiation, livelier, job-family is going to happen in this century and hence the beginning of the century should be strong, the country should be strong so that the whole century of my first time voter will be good. And therefore, I would urge First Time Voters to vote in greater number to punish this attitude of Congress. Voting for the century is because he has to spend life in this 21st century. His education-initiation, livelier, job-family is going to happen in this century and hence the beginning of the century should be strong, the country should be strong so that the whole century of my first time voter will be good. And therefore, I would urge First Time Voters to vote in greater number to punish this attitude of Congress. Voting for the century is because he has to spend life in this 21st century. His education-initiation, livelier, job-family is going to happen in this century and hence the beginning of the century should be strong, the country should be strong so that the whole century of my first time voter will be good. And therefore, I would urge First Time Voters to vote in greater number to punish this attitude of Congress.

Brothers and sisters, consider this vote as a historic vote, you should remember the first vote of your life, and you should have used your finger to fabricate the country with this feeling. The pundits are saying that there is no wave, some people live, the elections go ahead and their dislike is set to become a government. They know that after 23rd May once again ... Modi government will come, so now the new stories are being planted from Delhi. First of all, the wave does not start, now the voting is already going on, they have trouble. They do not know, there are two people in this election who are making a big record, one of my newcomers, who are voting for the first time. Secondly, my mother-in-law, who has said that the brother who has fixed the death sentence for rapists, is to be reinstated, They are deciding mothers and sisters who have given a gas stove in our house to make her prime minister again. Those mothers and sisters have decided that the future of our children has been electrified for the future, they have to make the prime minister again and therefore the mothers and sisters have come out with full force to vote. When mothers flowing, these pundits have come to know where the wave came from, the wave is coming from every house.  

|
Sister-in-law, the Congress has been reunited with the help of her daughter-in-law, every one of her colleagues, every tribal, every farmer, every poor person's life. Money was being provided to the small farmers' bank account, but the Madhya Pradesh Government is coming to give list of farmers. They will have to do this work fast on May 23, when they are shocked. We have decided that on May 23, once the Modi government comes, then the condition of the 5 acres which will be removed now will be withdrawn and money will be deposited in all the farmers' accounts.

Friends, the Bharatiya Janata Party is working with the poor farmers as well as to protect the future of everyone. After the age of 60 years, after the age of 60, the poor, small farmers, farm laborers, small shopkeepers should not have the problem of money for their small needs, for this sometimes the family They do not even see the children, they are going to look for your son and for this we have fixed the pension plan. Every month pension plans will come and whatever anyone who wants to join them will get a pension after 60 years so that they do not have trouble in old age. A son of this country should also be in Delhi, who should be concerned about the people above 60 years of age. You have set up a son who is also concerned about those above 60 and also specially worries about 18 to 25 people. He also worries about the middle class, he also worries about the poor. He also worries about the village, He also worries the city. He also worries the farmer, he also worries about the laborer. Worries about every class of society, worry about every corner of India. Worries about the future of India also concerns the current of Hindustan. Such a son needs your blessings, brothers and therefore I have come among you.

Similarly, to give attention to the interests of our business brothers and sisters, a National Merchant Commission will also be formed to enhance their dialogue with the government. These loans will also be provided to merchants upto Rs 50 lakh loan without guarantee.

Considering the need of the brothers and sisters, the country and the people, the formation of new arrangements is the identification of the BJP governments. We have now decided to form the Ministry of Water Resources to overcome the water related challenges in the country. The country has also been given the skill development ministry by the BJP-NDA government, otherwise the scope of skill development for Khanapruti was scattered in dozens of departments. Sathyo, it was the government of Atal ji who formed the tribal ministry keeping in mind the interests of the tribals. You tell me, brothers, our country was not tribal in the time of Lord Rama, tell me with power, no. Were not tribals or were tribals in the Mahabharata period or not? Were not tribals in the era of King-Emperors, were they? Whether or not there were tribals in the British era, Were not tribals in the era of Congress? When the country was free, were terrorists or not? But these Congressmen did not know. They did not know that there are tribals in my country. Four-four generations of a family remained the Prime Minister, but tribals were never seen in their glasses. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji came, after many years of independence, he said that my forests which are considered to be more beloved than their own lives, the Tribals who handle our great traditions should make separate ministry for development and Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji made separate ministry of tribals. And these are our companions who have made them a minister, Atal ji had first installed the tribal from Madhya Pradesh for this work, Brothers. This work was done by Atal ji. Brothers This work was done by Atal ji. Brothers This work was done by Atal ji. Those tribals who handle our great traditions should make separate ministry for development and Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji made a separate ministry of tribals. And these are our companions who have made them a minister, Atal ji had first installed the tribal from Madhya Pradesh for this work, Brothers. This work was done by Atal ji. Those tribals who handle our great traditions should make separate ministry for development and Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji made a separate ministry of tribals. And these are our companions who have made them a minister, Atal ji had first installed the tribal from Madhya Pradesh for this work, Brothers. This work was done by Atal ji.

|
With the inspiration of his friends, our effort is to make education, medicines, earnings, irrigation and its resources in the ethnic areas. Therefore, Eklavya model schools are being set up by the government for tribal children across the country. Through forest centers, we have the power of value addition and marketing in forest produce. In the last five years, forest produce in the MSP area has increased from 10 to 50. Friends, I will repeat that the tribal land, the forest, the tribals have the right till Narendra Modi is sitting, till the Bharatiya Janata Party is not seized by any tribal, his land will not be squeezed and those who lie This is the time to punish those who mislead you, so that they do this work to put your future in the balance. If they were cared for tribals so much, till the time of Atal ji, those who make any ministry for the concern of the tribals have no right to say this.

Brothers and sisters, Ratlam has been a very important center for connectivity of the country. We are sincerely working to improve road, rail and air connectivity in this area. Friends, to fulfill all the resolutions of new India, you have to feed lotus with full power. You tell me, is not that India is strong? Hindustan now goes home and kills, does not it? Do you like it or not, are you proud that does not happen? Is your cena wider that does not happen? Hindustan should be strong and should not be? Should the government be strong or not? So your watchman should also be strong then neither Where will the janitor get strength? You will get one vote each. To make the watchman strong, go home and tell people, have to vote. To take on the booth, Press the button in front of lotus marks. And your one vote will be in Modi's account. I came to bless you in such a large number, I am very grateful to you. Stop both fists ...

Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai, thank you very much.




 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -  
984.

12/05/19


Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata

Mata Kshipra and Maa Ahilyabai , this holy city of the people of the respect of the present here. I had come to the airport on time. But there was a delay in reaching here, and the delay was due to the unprecedented love Indore showed today. The blessings that were given, from the airport to both sides was the Human Wall. Perhaps I did not do the speeches and even went through the roadshows, even if the newspapers of entire state of Madhya Pradesh would be filled with the news that Modi's roadshow was tremendous. So much love, today Indore touched my heart. From the belief of ancient India to spirituality to new India, new attitudes , if any city symbol, then that city is named Indore. Indore spirituality throughout India including Kashi as Ahilyabai HolkarAnd given inspirational leadership for the betterment of humanity, in the last five years India led the Clean India campaign. Today my cousisse is trying to fulfill the dream of mother Ahilyabai who had dreamed for Baba Vishwanath temple in Kashi, with Baba's blessings. Being a MP from Banaras, I am particularly proud of this. My special affection from Indore has also been that this Sumitra is a city of Tai. This city chose them and sent them to serve the country. Sent in Parliament. And as the speaker, Sumitra Tai, who worked with patience , worked with patience only, the mind of all those who were used to watching TV at the time the Parliament was running, has left an emotive impression, and very few people You will know that Modi is the Prime Minister. But if someone can scold Modiji in our party, Tai can scold.

Sumitra Tai is fighting this entire Madhya Pradesh elections and is making a new history. But Sathyo, I got an opportunity to work in the organization with Tai Ji, we have worked as a partner. Considering their dedication to their work, doing their duty to do something for the common man's life, I assure Indore that no desire of Tai Ji will be incomplete in the development of the city. I will never come short To give this faith I have come today to Indore. I am grateful for one more thing from Saathio, Indore and Madhya Pradesh. You I made a request success very seriously and she Clean India Campaign Clean India campaign if all my brother came to think of India as normal human is entitled to Indore and sisters. Friends, we have often been ruling in the countryThe public has seen standing to remove the government. But this time Kanyakumari from Kashmir , Kamrup from Kutch , this time the country has been raised to re-elect this government. It is also often said that the voter of the country is very silent. But this time people are speaking. The emphasis is speaking loudly. And this is the reason why many leaders who have lost their sleep. Now they have lost balance in speaking. Do not worry, fellow, 2014 election was of anti incompensation, 2019 election is of Pro Incombination. In 2014, the outrage against corruption, dynasty and policy paralysis was at peak. The confidence of the public in the year 2019 is at the peak. In 2014 the country had just heard about Modi and Modi's work.

In 2019, the country is beginning to know the work of Modi. The elections of 2019 are not the only Bharatiya Janata Party fighting. Rather they are fighting the 2019 elections. 130 crore nationals are leading this election. Friends, my allegiance, my judgment and my policy can be less estimative. But in my intentions no one can fault me. That's because I live in public, I constantly communicate with the public. I never used air conditionersSitting in the rooms is not fun. On policy formation, I have tried to bring change in the country by leaving the world of Babuji's and joining the public. Brothers and sisters, in the past five years, we have given special attention to technology and technology. Today you see where India's global standings have reached in terms of technology. Seeing India, India has become the third largest start-up system in the world. In the coming five years, we will be able to further strengthen the funding of this eco system to our young colleagues. Brothers and sisters, the next industrial revolution will be based on digital infrastructure and the template itself. We are preparing the country for this. Today we in schools across the country 6 Th as the children of Class AB Tinkring LabAre available. This is a comprehensive improvement in the education system of India. In the future, this is going to develop our community for start up and technology. Brothers and sisters, this new institution is going to be the new identity of the new India. Our young colleagues are about to fly the aspirations. The way we have made digital technology a part of governance . From that to the least Government Maximum Governance has helped greatly to realize that dream. The process of taking decisions in the past five years has accelerated. The delivery of services is accurate and fast. And the biggest thing is to reach the public's access system. And the system has transparency . Sathio, Jan Dhan, base and Mobile i.e. JAM Jam Trinity Over Rs 1 lakh crore in the last five years, Indore people will be surprised to hear it.

Five years of more than Rs 1 lakh crore Hindustan treasure, Which is your right. You are the owner of the treasury of India. But earlier these governments used to run Rs 1 lakh crore, these figures are not minor. The rupee, which came from the government safe, went in the wrong hands. Modi has stopped him, friends. In the same 5 years, Direct Benefit Transfer of Rs 6 lakh crore has been directly invested in beneficiaries account. That is, I saved the spoils of the middlemen who were robbed for the disappearance and honest tax payer of the country. Friends, this is the first government that has given honest tax payer so much respect. This is the first government that has given much respect and respect to the needs of the middle class, its hopes and aspirations. There is no tax on income of five lakh rupees in the country today. This demand was done by the middle class of the country for years, this work was also done by this watchman. We have reduced inflation, reduced the home's EMI. Brothers and sisters, We are expanding the infrastructure of modern infrastructure in the country. Brothers, today's Make in India is emerging as a great brand. There is an IT park and business park with super corridors in Indore. About five thousand small businesses are operating Today's IndiaAuto , rail coat , defense manufacturing is making a lot of difference. In mobile phone manufacturing we have become the second largest country in the world.

|
All of you will remember that during the assembly elections, a nominee came here and said that make-in-Indore and make-in-Mandsaur will make mobile phones, as it was said, did not say that was said? Indore forgets said? who told? But so much said to the playback and the media here carried this impression on the very name of Bahaan Shan. There is a special grace on them, but this promise has not been mentioned in the entire manifesto of the Congress. No newspaper will be written. Then the government has changed Well, this is not new to Congress. Their ego appears in three words. These three words are the identity of the Congress ego. How these three words Congress looks towards the people of the country is a living proof. These three words are words that after listening to the Congress in the public life of Himatan and its mahamalavatiCompanions do not have the right to stay in public life for one day. What are these three words? Who are you Who are you Who are you Firstly, salute to the people of Indore because you know, you are aware. Now the master of Namdar and this person is not speaking, it is speaking the ego of the Congress party, the Congress is thinking of the party. What else? It happened It happened It happened It happened The farmers had to forgive the debt of up to two lakhs. The police is coming to the farmers house today.

The banks are not lending to the farmers and they are said to be so. Say it with full force, listen to them. It is said to be so. It is said to be so. It is said to be so. It is said to be so. And the people of Indore say that Enough is Enough is enough. The people of Madhya Pradesh are asking why the electricity was supplied instead of electricity bills? Congressman says it happened. Congressman says it happened. Congressman says it happened. The employee here is asking why my transfer was in vain? It is said to be so. They say that happened happened. So the ego is filled in it. They think that nothing will be silent and people will accept it. It is not the 20th century that the Congress thinks. This 21st century is a four-year-old child who knows who you are. My dear brothers and sisters of Indore, climbing the tree of dynasty, these people can get the command of the party but, Thinking and vision can not be found. Barley is not a vision, when the track record is not good enough then just have to resort to lies, lies have to be spread. This is the reason why Congress today does not want to discus our country's defense policy, our defense policy. Congress says why Modi raises the issue of terrorism. Should not you tell me to raise that? Such answers can not be answered. If you feed poha then feed them with love. Tell me, should there be a discussion of terrorism in this country or not? Is this the election of Indore Municipal Corporation? This is the election of Hindustan, I can understand pillars, electricity, pipes, garden, cleaning, gattar, water in the election of Indore Municipal Corporation. But will the Hindustan elections be held, The government of India which creates a defense budget. The Government of India is responsible for protecting the border. Which were the first bomb blasts in the country in the year 2014. The bombings were there. Had there been bomb blasts that were not? Did not happen in Pune? Did not happen in Benaras? Did not happen in Ayodhya? Did not happen in Delhi? I can tell such a big list. Why did the brother stop after 2014? Why stopped? Why stopped? What is the reason? Why stopped? Hey you the people of Indore gave wrong answers. Indore can not make mistakes Indore people gave wrong answers, you say Modi did your answer is wrong It has been your vote. This is the strength of your vote which the country today strongly knocks in the house. There is only one issue for the Congress to remove Modi, remove Modi, remove Modi

Brothers and sisters, this is the Congress whose wrong policies have strengthened terrorism and Naxalism in the country. Their safety policy was so weak that hundreds of people were killed in bomb blasts. But there was no sound from their mouths, the world was not ready to listen to them. Pakistan spread all over the world that terrorism in India is an indirect problem of India. Kashmiri Kashmiri-Kashmir-Kashmir was sung on the International Day of the I-Day Friends, everything has been closed for the past five years. Now Pakistan has to go by everywhere and have to answer that they will do terrorism or not. Brothers and sisters, and this is Modi. Do you know who is Indore? Brothers, this is a new India, Now India goes home and kills. And despite all, the whole world stays with us. No one is ready to listen to Pakistan. Do you tell me I am doing right or not? Should I do that or not? Should we go home and kill it or not? What should I cry? Should I kill my young men? Let me tell you today, there is a huge line to become the Prime Minister in this Lok Sabha election. Do not know? Many people are standing in the queue to become prime minister. There are many people In Karnataka, even those who fight in eight seats, think that this time their number will take place. The 20 seats also think that they will become prime ministers. 30 seats are also speaking, hey brother, your love on my head eyes, I start speaking? Hey Indore people are so much loved, then Tai will have to feed me. Can i start speaking? Hey Indore people are so much loved, then Tai will have to feed me. Can i start speaking? Hey Indore people are so much loved, then Tai will have to feed me.

Brothers and sisters, today there is a huge line of prime ministership. Eight seats also think that the number will be counted. He is also fighting 20 seats. He is fighting 30 seats, he is also thinking. Some people even made clothes from the tailor. I just want to ask you, who are the faces that appear? Who is it? Who can fight terrorism? Do not say this to please me, do not say this to please the media. Tell the truth, who can fight terrorism? Who can counter terrorism? Who can protect the country? You are reassured, I am very grateful to you. Jai is not daring to debate the security of the Congress and its mahilaivati ??country. Because if he makes a debate, he will have to account for 70 years of his sins. So run away, remember that during the tenure of these great people, when the government slept in doing two big events together in the country, And for this reason when the 2009 elections were going on, and the 2014 elections were going on. Both elections took place in the month of May and IPL matches in May. The country's young man wants to watch the match.Enjoy wants. You will be surprised by the friends, remember, it was sitting like a government that in 2009 and 2014 they said that the election is we can not make IPL and the IPL was outside the election. Those who can not make an IPL, and what is today, see the government changes, if the government changes, what does it change? You see, these media people will not tell you, you have to come and tell me. See, elections are also happening, is not it happening? IPL is not happening or is it happening? On one hand, people are celebrating the festival of democracy in the country, during this same time, Navaratri was celebrated just recently, Chaitra Navaratri was running, Ramanavami was celebrated, the country celebrated with Anan Bahan. Just now Hanuman Jayanti celebrated the country celebrated with Ana-Ban-Shan. Just the festival of Easter was celebrated, the whole country celebrated Easter and now Ramzan is also celebrating with full pomp and elections are also going on.

Not only that, a few days ago you might have seen also that a huge pheeni, the phony cyclone storm came, and in the eastern region of India, came at a very fast pace. We also handled it in such a way that, lifting 12 lakh people from one place to another, settled the possibility of the death of thousands of people and the United Nations said that India showed amazing work. These friends also made during the election. The elections are run, IPL goes, Navratri goes, Ramnavmi walks, Hanuman Jayanti walks, Easter walks, Ramzan walks and storms also to fight Hindustan is a new India. People are there at the officer's office also there are the bureaucracy there too, Babu is there, the government machine is there, the table is there, the file is there, the agency is also there. Then what changed? What changed? People are right there The government's will, Work culture and government's commitment When every decision is taken only in keeping in mind only and only national interest, such results are available. Brothers and sisters, everything in Congress is deseed by dynasty and vote bank. Take the issue of three divorces, the Congress is opposing oppression with the Muslim sisters just for the vote bank. The daughter who was gangraped in Alwar now, she was pressured by the Dalit daughter, so that the news should not be spread before the election. Otherwise the Dalit will get annoyed.

I have challenged Mayawati today. I said Bahnaji your party is a partner in the government in Rajasthan, if the Dalits are so worried then back them back, they are not the absolute majority government. Do not give courage, do not have the courage, friends. Friends, everyone, everyone's development. This is our mantra, and everyone's safety is respected for everyone. This is our love. To strengthen this feeling, this time to feed lotus with full power. Is the country stronger? Is the country stronger? And make up? Make stronger? So should the government want strong? Should not the government want strong? So should this chaukadar also be strong? If you want to strengthen the watchman, will you strengthen your booth? Voting on 19th will go home? Will you meet everyone Will you explain to the country? Will you withdraw to vote? Will you work hard? What can Indore do to record a record breaking whole of Madhya Pradesh? What can you do? Brothers and sisters, Press the button on the lotus marks, your vote will be directly directed to Modi's account. You come to bless such a large amount, I am very grateful to Indore. Thank you very much for all of us and thank you very much for Tai Ji's blessings.

Close my fists with me

Barat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai

Thanks a lot   

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
983.

12/05/19


Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

Khandwa's people are very wise , they are very settled . Will you accept a prayer ? These people who have gone to Pandal, ask them to join my hand, come down to you. There too, all the above are you who come down. Let me see if anything happens, then I will not enjoy this victory. Many thanks, very wise people are you  

Do Omkar chef Hail , Hail Narmada Maiya , hail Singaji chef , hail Brhmgir chef , Dhuniwale Grandpa Joe. Nimada, Khandwa, has always had a lot of love for me. Your blessings have been my strength and that is why today the whole country is saying, once again ... Modi government , the whole country is saying, once again ... Modi Government  

 

Friends , there are two obvious reasons for this love and faith. A track record of Modi and the other tape recorder of Congress and its celebrities. I 5 am on the grounds of their honesty and integrity of old and Mhamilavti lie , are phenomena contesting its base. My work with me and their exploits with them.

Friends , see now there is no place in this place , now where will you go , you are far away , yet I can feel your love. You should not make any effort to come forward. Your very love has brought me here too. When I come to you, do not try to come back from the front. Will you stand in peace ? Will you stand ? See, your love, these enthusiasm , these passion , these personalities are all on my head-eyes but , should I start speaking now ? What is your love so much now ? You can not even stop This is your love ,Your enthusiasm is spoiling those people. After the third phase, have not seen their face seen ? They came to know about the third stage itself. Brothers , Congress here asked the farmers to forgive their debt, why did the people, who were so cold, told the Congress to forgive the debt or not ? In 10 days the debt was asked to forgive , did not say that ? Did not say that one had taught ten to ten, taught that Madhya Pradesh was not taught and if the loan was not forgiven then the CM will not forgive ? Ten days have passed It has been 20 days , 40 days have passed , 80 days have passed , 120 days have passed. What happened ?Farmers' debt was waived ? Congress's lies and promise of this victory is a reality and this time it will clear only Madhya Pradesh Congress, but due to these acts of Congress, the news of Madhya Pradesh has reached the whole of India so that Madhya Pradesh defeated them in entire India. Is, in entire India because our country forgives mistakes , never forgives liability and betrayal. This is the way to work for them for 70 years. Lie to the first vote, make a government like that , and when the public questions, then say two lies, then said, it happened. You did not see what a Congress leader said , it happened, that means nothing to do , that happened, it happened, lied and said ,Made a fool to fool the farmer.

Friends , this election was done by the people who worked hard day and night in the ego of the poor for the poor and said everything was done. In front of us these people are thinking of what happened. We did the work of reaching the village to the village. Worked to connect far and wide to the National Highway and Railway. Every poor family should get their permanent home , every sister , daughter has toilet facilities Electricity reached village-village , house-house. The kitchen stove at every poor sister's house , the gas of the kitchen arrived in the stove. Every poor family gets free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh every year . For this, we have done five years of sincerity sincerely and with all this - all is development which we believe.

Brothers and sisters , but Congress blocked the truth of those , also known Collect 1984 was tortured with the Sikhs , were slaughtered and then're saying , happened ... happened. And who is guilty of 84 riots in public view. Who made the Punjab Congress in charge, Punjab Congress added the hand, take it or else we will end in Punjab. So you took it from there, imposed on you , made the chief minister, this is Congress. Thousands of people were handed over to poisonous gas in Bhopal , many generations were wasted .The guilty of this scandal was banished, taken to the government plane. If today you will ask them to kill thousands of people, then they will say this ... then it happened , happened ... then it happened. People die if they do not have to give them anything.

Comrades 2014 due to their weakness before , terrorism due to the policy of appeasement took to thousands not. Today they are saying this , happened ... so happened , happened ... so happened , happened ... then it happened.

|
Brothers and sisters , the country's famous singer Kishore Kumar was also the son of this land. And whenever Kishore Kumar's name came, people used to mention Khandwa and used to boast proudly. During the Emergency, they did not come under the pressure of Congress and they remained firm on their principles. The Congress had made the country prison prison in the state of emergency. He did not approve of them , in return, the Congress had stopped playing on the radio on the songs of Khandwa's son Kishore Dey, then the TV was not stopped, then the radio was closed. If any person of Khandwa today asked the Congress that you have come to vote , you should vote for us but was Kishore Kumar Khandwa ? Did you do this with Kishore Kumar ? So what will you say in the answer, leave it to be a man ?That would not be said, if it happened , it happened , if ... happened , it happened ....   

Brothers , what is the way to do their work ? Understand this too. Pakistan's poachers, terrorists, used to attack here when they used to punish innocent people in prisons. Brothers and sisters , for the sake of fabricating the mischief of Hindu terrorism , the serious conspiracy to defame our great tradition, and that they have done only to do politics of votebank , the answer to that is getting them today. These may also fire so , they show how the sacred thread , the police saffron dress too Silva Safety , is but saffron try which he brought out the stain of terror , is the plot. These Congress or Mahmilavati will never escape from that sin, brothers

Brothers and sisters , it is important to be cautious of those false traders . If they get a chance, they will put India's security in danger. Brothers and sisters , if the country is not safe , then it will not be developed either. The first condition for development is safety. The adulterated government , the Khichdi government can not give security at all. You see here in Madhya Pradesh only. There are two chief of a party , two, 2.5 . The administration does not know which order to obey. Goons , killers and dacoits have been given an open license. The administration is being used here in the interest of their factions. Industry has been running the same industry, the transfer industry ,Transfer industry When this can happen in the same party's tire , then what will they do for the sake of 2 dozen people in Delhi, what will happen to the country, they can easily understand Madhya Pradesh.

Friends , lies in their principles, make excuses , tell lies to you. In fact your money has been blown up in the election campaign. For Aboriginal sisters and children's nutrition center, which had been sent money , he also he gave to the campaign Namdaron. The entire country has seen the truth of the Tughlaq Road election scam. How are notes filled with notes from the Congressmen's house, they have been shown by the TV people. This game of lies and corruption has been done by Congress for many decades.

Comrades , what is good policy ? I tell you this today. On February 1 this year, we announced a plan to deposit Rs. 75 thousand directly into the account of 12 million small farmers of the country every year . Just three weeks later, we started this scheme and today we are collecting money in the accounts of millions of farmers' families in the country. But the farmers of Madhya Pradesh could not get the same benefit. Why ? Because the Congress did not list the farmers returned , the deposit money in their account.

Brothers and sisters , who are deceitful , who have done fareb Congress with farmers and youth , the same lies and rumors are being done in tribal families also. BJP government in Delhi for the past five years. For 15 years there has been a government of the Bharatiya Janata Party but we did not let the tribals land on fire. Unless and writes me these words continue until he is , as long as it will not come to the aboriginal rights of the Bharatiya Janata Party scratch.

Friends , these are the same firak how to kill you by telling a lie today. Remember , they stopped the scheme of gram and salt for the tribals in Chhattisgarh. He stopped the five lakh free treatment plan in Chhattisgarh. They are now planning to stop the tribal's help getting back here too. Aborigines say what to say it after helping to stop , What , What , What ? Look, the people of Khandwa have not been able to understand , all understand.

|
Brothers and sisters , between the conspiracies of these great people, in the past 5 years , we have worked for everyone in every section of the country . A network of Eklavya model school is being set up in tribal areas. We are paying special attention to developing sports skills of tribal youth. Brothers and sisters , we are giving special emphasis on tourism for employment generation. Especially those who have our heritage which are also in Khandwa, are being decorated with them. Apart from the facilities being developed there, besides the non-guaranteed loan through the money scheme, it is strengthening business related to tourism. While improving the connectivity of railways and roads, tourism is also going to help.

Friends , another task we are doing with all the potential we are doing is the work of electricity generation. Here I came to power the plant in 2015 to hand you over. Even then I had mentioned in detail my plans. Now we are focusing on solar and wind energy. In this we are leading the world.

Friends , many such resolutions will be strengthened by all of us, for this, the whole Nimad region along with Khandwa and whole of Madhya Pradesh will again be able to feed the lotus. Every vote lying on the lotus, brothers and sisters , tell me, is not the country strong today ? Should not it be strong enough ? Should the power to kill and kill the house should not be ? Should not be killed in the house and should not be killed ? Should this make the country stronger or not ? To strengthen the country, to strengthen the booth in this election is not to make it , to strengthen the booth or not to make it ? Will strengthen the booth ? Go home? Will you meet voters ? Explain to suppress the vote on the lotus symbol , talk of defending the country , will talk about the development of the country ? Will talk about the welfare of tribal , talk to good Dalit victims exploited deprived ? They love Lejoge the voting booth , his vote going to get , burning ballot before going to get Pan , will be refreshments after the vote ?  Bharatiya Janata Party will win , your booth will win , will you vote on lotus ?So much is your enthusiasm then victory is certain and I assure you that every vote on the lotus will go to Modi's account. You come to bless us in such a large number, I am very grateful to you. Close the fist and speak with full force ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay

Voice should be heard in Bhopal today.

Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

Long live Mother India

Thanks a lot.  



 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
982.

12/05/19



Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai

Seated on the platform popular in Uttar Pradesh, successful and hard-working Minister Mr. Aditya Yogi Ji , senior all sitting BJP forum leaders , this all promising candidate of the BJP in the elections and come to bless us in huge numbers, my dear brothers and sisters . First of all, I apologize to you, because BJP workers made such a big arrangement for this gathering, you did not even have trouble, even tents for it. But the people who are in tents, I am seeing outside and they are practicing in the sun. I apologize to those who are suffering in the sun, who have uncomfortable but I assure them that your penance will not go unnoticed. I will return it with interest and return it by developing this area.

Mahaparinirvana place of Mahatma Buddha salutes this holy land of Kushinagar.

Comrades, there have been five phases of elections , anti-around chit eat , Crusty are , on the guards do not understand, the minister of the country, so love the people why is overflowing. Brothers and sisters , today in the world the voice of India is being heard , the country is voting for the Bharatiya Janata Party and Modi for it. Which direct the war on terror we're fighting , is pressed to mark the country's lotus him , he is giving the vote. Today those who are scared of India are forced to live in fear , they are scared , therefore, the courage of the country is increasing. So the country is voting for Modi. To kill Pakistani terrorists in the house ,Do you like this custom policy ? What do you like ? The country is feeding lotus for the same policy. Those who take the name of Ram are given lessons for those who take the name of the prisoners , get democratically punished, either West Bengal or any other part of India, so the country is voting on lotus marks.

The country is voting for a strong , decisive , and honest government. The country is voting, therefore once again ... Modi government will come to the conclusion on May 23 , then once the Modi government is set. These people are so disturbed , when the news comes in the morning when the news comes , then it came to know that some militants in Kashmir were killed by our army. Now, some people have trouble that why Modi is fighting terrorists today when voting is going on. He is standing in front of a bomb with a gun. Will there be permission for the commission of my commission commission commission, should I shoot it or do not kill it? What is the game made by our opponents?

Since we have come to Kashmir, cleanliness happens every other day, cleanliness campaign is my job, brother. My colleagues from Kushinagar , Maharajganj and Gorakhpur are now the time when you have to make the victory of the BJP , NDA and grand and divine. We have been taught since childhood that the pot is filled with droppings. Therefore, every vote is very important to me. There is not a single vote for me , every vote for me is sacred , every vote is priceless. Brothers and sisters, I am telling this serious thing, seeing the victory is not the time to relax , it is time to make this victory so historic that the people who have molested people have stopped thinking about going against the country.

Comrades, SP , BSP and Congress how they are Mhamilavt , an example of Rajasthan. I am amazed that all those who talk about the day have sat down. What happened in Rajasthan, there is oppression with a Dalit daughter , gang rape happened . There is a Congress government, Namdhar is the government and the government of Rajasthan is not a majority government , it is running with the support of the BSP. Both the Congress and the BSP have been engaged in suppressing the rape done on the Dalit daughter. These rapists have also locked the mouth of the Congress nominee who screamed in the name of justice. Friends, today the daughters of UP are asking sister and sister, you have to answer,Sister in Rajasthan, your support is going on in government and Dalit daughter is raped there, why did not you withdraw your support? You are shedding tears by rhetoric. If you and sister were in the guesthouse with you, the sisters of the whole country had been suffering, what is the reason why sister is not suffering you. If you are so honest towards the protection of daughters, then today, this time, take back the support of the BSP from the Rajasthan government this time, let the governor write a letter ... No rhetoric. No rhetoric.

Your janitor has made the provision of the death sentence only to punish the people of the monstrous tendencies who have oppressed daughters. If the concept of Congress government was also correct, then what happened in Alwar, in hiding it does not seem to be suppressing. But they have only one answer. Do you know what the answer is ? They have the same answer, it happened. What is the answer, what is the leader of the Congress ? It happened

Ally, corruption, corruption , or in 1984 , thousands of Sikhs have been brutally murdered. Their answer is the same, it happened. Friends, in the ego of which these people say, it happened. These people made a part of the government machinery of the country, made habit. In the past five years this servant has changed this work culture. These people's bets are failing and therefore these people are cursing me by drinking water. Every day new ones are cursing, giving abusive abuses, searching for the dictionary of love around the world, and wearing a mask of love, gives me abuses. Now these people have started seeking my caste certificate today.

Sister-in-law, I never go to this politics and you will never need to go by your blessings. But when people are demanding certificates, I will tell that my birth is of the most backward caste but my dream is to make the whole of India Work day and night I have only one caste, listen to it, listen to all the racist leaders, in the name of casteism, people who have robbed the poor for 70 years, listen to their ears openly and listen to Modi's only caste is poor. My only identity is poor. I have poverty , I have suffered the pain of poverty, only from poverty , I have got the opportunity to serve the country today with the blessings of the poor. This post, this reputation has long been the Chief Minister of Gujarat ,Five years of Prime Minister's post, you have given it to me, but I and my family have never misused this power, this post. For a long time, I have been Chief Minister, both of whom are both poor and poor, I have come here for a longer time. But I did not change the poverty of my family and the richness. I have used the power to serve the poor and for the sake of the poor. I have worked sincerely to reduce poverty in the country. Friends, those who are seeking my caste certificates today , when they got a chance to serve you , they created assets worth hundreds of thousands of crores for themselves.

I have been the longest Chief Minister in Gujarat, I am the Prime Minister of the country for five years and my bookkeeping, open book is in front of the country. The living example of those who live for the poor is present in front of you. Friends, when they got the opportunity, they knew for themselves and this people of Uttar Pradesh. Make millions of crores of bungalows for yourself . Did not create that? Not made for all the people of the family? Do not everyone have expensive to expensive carriages?  More than them I have the opportunity to be on power, for me the power of service is the medium. What did I do ? I did not make my bungalow , nor did I use my service to my family, I used to make 1.5 million poor houses. When these people got the opportunity, they got coal scam .When I got a chance to serve, I gave 70 million poor mothers freedom from stove smoke and gave them the connection of gas for free. When these people got an opportunity, these people also scam in power. And if I had the opportunity of service, I completed the work of freeing more than two and a half million poor families. When these people had a chance to NRHM turned scam , online fraud in the ambulance when I had the opportunity to serve, I poor in year 5 brought free treatment facility aayushmaan India plans Rs million. Sister-in-law, when these people were in government, the doors of the bank were closed for the poor and then afraid of going to the poor bank. When I got a chance to serve, I got 34Opening of bank accounts of more than ten million poor, opening bank doors for the poor. Today, the same bank accounts of the poor have been deposited by the people for one lakh crore rupees. Earlier, this money used to go around them, they used to be spent and poor poor were poor.

|
Brothers and sisters, this is the people who are still today, these SP, BSP, Congress Mahamalivati ??all the Jatts of the whole country are opposing the Aadhaar card, went to the Supreme Court. The more restrictions were put in place, the obstacles in the Parliament were to be interrupted. Brothers and sisters, I was stuck because the Aadhaar card is a very big tool for the poor.

Brothers, what did I do, they tried to stop the Aadhaar card, to stop. While adding this base card generating account and your mobile, our government fired 8 crore fake intermediaries, robbers of the poor, and all the communities I had in a jerk. His name was removed, his business was removed, his brokerage was withdrawn. With the help of these bogus names, middlemen used to grab money directly from the poor. Sister-in-law, the poor are not fond of living in dirt; they are compulsory, but the mahilaist people did nothing to give a clean environment to the poor. I started the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, got out with a shovel-broom. More than 100 million toilets are constructed and the result of this is that all the diseases caused by dirt have been reduced, the lives of millions of poor are left.

Brothers and sisters, these people have climbed up so much that they despise the poor, they despise those who clean the dirt by holding the vine of dynasty. While born in poverty , raised in poverty , the foot of the poor in his fair today to bless the poor foot wash sweeper washed himself has blessed me.

Brothers and sisters, these people of East disease , the problem here is poor , are more familiar to you had left in the clutches of the disease, what was the situation with the Japanese fever by state. We have made many serious attempts to stop this disease, which is the Tikaran campaign, and for the first time, we have added the Encephalitis vaccine. At the same time, the hospitals are being modernized in the full form. If AIIMS is serving you in Gorakhpur, then modern cancer hospital in Banaras has been established.

Our government is sensitive to the need of farmers, farmers. Direct help has begun to reach small farmers' accounts. We have also decided that on May 23 , once the Modi government comes, then the rule of five acres will also be removed and all the farmers will have direct money in the account. Similarly, we are making sugarcane an important source of future fuel. Now from trains to airplanes, the fuels are now being run by fuel from ethanol. These ethanol is being made from sugarcane, so for making ethanol from sugarcane, plants are being made across the country. The benefits of sugarcane farmers are also being here.

Brothers and sisters, we are working to make the Purvanchal a big hub of the country's gas based economy and agricultural producers. Work on Gorakhpur's urea factory is going on fast. Gas pipeline is being laid in this area under the Energy Ganga scheme. Friends, this place is the Parinirvana place of Mahatma Buddha. Kushinagar is being connected to Buddhist shrines across the country under the Buddhist Circuit, facilities are being constructed. Here the connectivity of road and rail is being strengthened, work is also being done at the airport. Brothers and sisters have made this continuous endeavor that propagate our culture, which is the center of our faith. But there are only Congressmen who see your family, SP, BSP, these great people are our country, our culture, our tradition, the power of our 500 million people, their heroes,     

The world associated with Babasaheb Ambedkar has developed the same as the Panchatirtha by your own servant. Today millions of people are going to take inspiration from these places. This janitor has created the world's tallest statue of Sardar Patel, who lives for the farmers. Going to Google today, the young man will ask, "When and where is the highest statue in the world, when it comes to India, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's Statue But the people of Congress, SP and BSP did not digest this too. Friends, people filled with such selfishness can not do good to the poor, they can not do good to the farmers. Who was born with a spoon of silver and who made a silver spoon for himself by doing politics in the name of the poor Who still consider themselves to be the king-king and to the public their slave. They can never work for you to move forward. This job can only be done by your watchman .The servant can do So again in Delhi, it is necessary to give power to BJP-NDA once. Your vote will come in the Modi account.

Brothers, you want the country to be strong ? Should the country be strong ? Should be a knockout in the house ? To strengthen the country, then the polling booth will have to be strengthened too ? Will make ? Go home, meet the voter ? Will you explain to vote ? Will you vote for the country ? Will you vote to free the country from poverty ? Voting for security, will you vote for maximum ?  

You believe, when you press the button on the lotus mark, your vote will go straight into Modi's account. Thank you very much, speak loudly to me, close your hand and close your hand and close the fist ... Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Thank you very much.

 




 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 




 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 




 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 





 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 


 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 